{\rtf1\ansi\deff1\adeflang1025
{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fprq2\fcharset128 Times New Roman;}{\f1\froman\fprq2\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fnil\fprq2\fcharset0 HG Mincho Light J{\*\falt msmincho};}{\f3\froman\fprq2\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fswiss\fprq0\fcharset0 Arial;}{\f5\fswiss\fprq2\fcharset0 Trebuchet MS;}{\f6\fswiss\fprq0\fcharset0 Trebuchet MS;}{\f7\fswiss\fprq2\fcharset0 Arial Unicode MS;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;}
{\stylesheet{\s1\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\langfe1033\hich\fs24\lang1033\loch\fs24\lang1033\snext1 Normal;}
{\s2\sb240\sa120\keepn\rtlch\af7\afs28\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af2\langfe1033\hich\f4\fs28\lang1033\loch\f4\fs28\lang1033\sbasedon1\snext3 Heading;}
{\s3\sa232\sl360\slmult1\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\langfe1033\hich\f5\fs24\lang1033\loch\f5\fs24\lang1033\sbasedon1\snext3 Body Text;}
{\s4\sa232\sl360\slmult1\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\langfe1033\hich\f6\fs24\lang1033\loch\f6\fs24\lang1033\sbasedon3\snext4 List;}
{\s5\sb120\sa120\rtlch\afs20\lang255\ltrch\dbch\langfe1033\hich\f6\fs20\lang1033\i\loch\f6\fs20\lang1033\i\sbasedon1\snext5 caption;}
{\s6\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\langfe1033\hich\f6\fs24\lang1033\loch\f6\fs24\lang1033\sbasedon1\snext6 Index;}
{\s7\aspalpha\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\langfe255\hich\fs24\lang2057\loch\fs24\lang2057\sbasedon1\snext7 Normal;}
{\s8\rtlch\af5\afs22\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af5\langfe255\hich\f5\fs22\lang1033\loch\f5\fs22\lang1033\sbasedon7\snext8 Body Text;}
{\s9\tqc\tx4818\tqr\tx9637\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\langfe1033\hich\fs24\lang1033\loch\fs24\lang1033\sbasedon1\snext9 header;}
{\s10\tqc\tx4818\tqr\tx9637\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\langfe1033\hich\fs24\lang1033\loch\fs24\lang1033\sbasedon1\snext10 footer;}
{\*\cs12\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\langfe255\hich\fs24\lang1033\loch\fs24\lang1033\sbasedon13 Default Paragraph Font;}
{\*\cs13\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\langfe255\hich\fs24\lang255\loch\fs24\lang255 Normal;}
}
{\info{\creatim\yr0\mo0\dy0\hr0\min0}{\revtim\yr0\mo0\dy0\hr0\min0}{\printim\yr0\mo0\dy0\hr0\min0}{\comment StarWriter}{\vern3100}}\deftab720
{\*\pgdsctbl
{\pgdsc0\pgdscuse195\pgwsxn12240\pghsxn15840\marglsxn1800\margrsxn1800\margtsxn720\margbsxn720\headery0{\*\headeryb664\headerxl0\headerxr0\headeryh720}{\header \pard\plain \s9\tqc\tx4818\tqr\tx9637\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\langfe1033\hich\fs24\lang1033\loch\fs24\lang1033 
\par }
\footery0{\*\footeryt664\footerxl0\footerxr0\footeryh720}{\footer \pard\plain \s10\tqc\tx4818\tqr\tx9637\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\langfe1033\hich\fs24\lang1033\loch\fs24\lang1033 
\par }
\pgdscnxt0 Standard;}
{\pgdsc1\pgdscuse195\pgwsxn12240\pghsxn15840\marglsxn1800\margrsxn1800\margtsxn720\margbsxn720\headery0{\*\headeryb0\headerxl0\headerxr0\headeryh720}{\header \pard\plain \s9\tqc\tx4818\tqr\tx9637\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\langfe1033\hich\fs24\lang1033\loch\fs24\lang1033 
\par }
\footery0{\*\footeryt0\footerxl0\footerxr0\footeryh720}{\footer \pard\plain \s10\tqc\tx4818\tqr\tx9637\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\langfe1033\hich\fs24\lang1033\loch\fs24\lang1033 
\par }
\pgdscnxt1 Convert 1;}}
{\*\pgdscno0}\paperh15840\paperw12240\margl1800\margr1800\margt720\margb720\sectd\sbknone\pgwsxn12240\pghsxn15840\marglsxn1800\margrsxn1800\margtsxn1440\margbsxn1440\headery720{\header \pard\plain \s9\tqc\tx4818\tqr\tx9637\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\langfe1033\hich\fs24\lang1033\loch\fs24\lang1033 
\par }
\footery720{\footer \pard\plain \s10\tqc\tx4818\tqr\tx9637\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\langfe1033\hich\fs24\lang1033\loch\fs24\lang1033 
\par }
\ftnbj\ftnstart1\ftnrstcont\ftnnar\aenddoc\aftnrstcont\aftnstart1\aftnnrlc
\pard\plain \ltrpar\s3\sl360\slmult1\sa232\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\langfe1033\hich\f5\fs24\lang1033\loch\f5\fs24\lang1033 {\rtlch \ltrch\loch\f5\fs24\lang1033\i0\b0 Appadurai, Arjun, {\rtlch\ltrch\dbch\hich\i\loch\i Modernity at large: cultural dimensions of globalization,} University of Minnesota Press Minneapolis, 1996 }
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s3\sl360\slmult1\sa232\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\langfe1033\hich\f5\fs24\lang1033\loch\f5\fs24\lang1033 
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s3\sl360\slmult1\sa232\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\langfe1033\hich\f5\fs24\lang1033\loch\f5\fs24\lang1033 {\rtlch \ltrch\loch\f5\fs24\lang1033\i0\b0 Modernity belongs to that small family of theories that both declares and desires universal applicability for itself. What is new about modernity (or about the idea that its newness is a new kind of newness) follows from this duality. 1   }
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s3\sl360\slmult1\sa232\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\langfe1033\hich\f5\fs24\lang1033\loch\f5\fs24\lang1033 {\rtlch \ltrch\loch\f5\fs24\lang1033\i0\b0 Thus, to put it summarily, electronic mediation and mass migration mark the world of the present not as technically new forces but as ones that seem to impel (and sometimes compel) the work of the imagination. Together, they create specific regularities be
cause both viewers and images are in simultaneous circulation. Neither images nor viewers fit into circuits or audiences that are easily bound within local, national, or regional spaces.  4}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s3\sl360\slmult1\sa232\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\langfe1033\hich\f5\fs24\lang1033\loch\f5\fs24\lang1033 {\rtlch \ltrch\loch\f5\fs24\lang1033\i0\b0 In the chapters that follow, I show that the work of the imagination, viewed in this context, is neither purely emancipatory nor entirely disciplined but is a space of contestation in which individuals and groups seek to annex the global into their own pra
ctices of the modern.    4   }
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s3\sl360\slmult1\sa232\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\langfe1033\hich\f5\fs24\lang1033\loch\f5\fs24\lang1033 {\rtlch \ltrch\loch\f5\fs24\lang1033\i0\b0 What I wish to suggest is that there has been a shift in recent decades, building on technological changes over the past century or so, in which the imagination has become a collective, social fact. This development, in turn, is the basis of the plurality 
of imagined worlds. 5}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s3\sl360\slmult1\sa232\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\langfe1033\hich\f5\fs24\lang1033\loch\f5\fs24\lang1033 {\rtlch \ltrch\loch\f5\fs24\lang1033\i0\b0 In suggesting that the imagination in the postelectronic world plays a newly significant role, I rest my case on three distinctions. First, the imagination has broken out of the special expressive space of art, myth, and ritual and has now become a part of
 the quotidian mental work of ordinary people in many societies. It has entered the logic of ordinary life from which it had largely been successfully sequestered.  5 }
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s3\sl360\slmult1\sa232\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\langfe1033\hich\f5\fs24\lang1033\loch\f5\fs24\lang1033 {\rtlch \ltrch\loch\f5\fs24\lang1033\i0\b0 Ordinary people have begun to deploy their imaginations in the practice of their everyday lives. This fact is exemplified in the mutual contextualizing of motion and mediation.  5 }
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s3\sl360\slmult1\sa232\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\langfe1033\hich\f5\fs24\lang1033\loch\f5\fs24\lang1033 {\rtlch \ltrch\loch\f5\fs24\lang1033\i0\b0 There is growing evidence that the consumption of the mass media throughout the world often provokes resistance, irony, selectivity, and, in general, {\rtlch\ltrch\dbch\hich\i\loch\i agency}. 7 }
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s3\sl360\slmult1\sa232\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\langfe1033\hich\f5\fs24\lang1033\loch\f5\fs24\lang1033 {\rtlch \ltrch\loch\f5\fs24\lang1033\i0\b0 Fantasy can dissipate (because its logic is so often autotelic), but the imagination, especially when collective, can become the fuel for action. It is the imagination, in its collective forms, that creates ideas of neighborhood and nationhood, of moral ec
onomies and unjust rule, of higher wages and foreign labor prospects. The imagination is today a staging ground for action, and not only for escape.  7   }
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s3\sl360\slmult1\sa232\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\langfe1033\hich\f5\fs24\lang1033\loch\f5\fs24\lang1033 {\rtlch \ltrch\loch\f5\fs24\lang1033\i0\b0 It is important to stress here that I am speaking of the imagination now as a property of collectives, and not merely as a faculty of the gifted individual (its tacit sense since the flowering of European Romanticism). 8}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s3\sl360\slmult1\sa232\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\langfe1033\hich\f5\fs24\lang1033\loch\f5\fs24\lang1033 {\rtlch \ltrch\loch\f5\fs24\lang1033\i0\b0 By technoscape, I mean the global configuration, also ever fluid, of technology and the fact that technology, both high and low, both mechanical and informational, now moves at high speeds across various kinds of previously impervious boundaries. (Appadura
i, 1996, 34)}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s3\sl360\slmult1\sa232\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\langfe1033\hich\f5\fs24\lang1033\loch\f5\fs24\lang1033 {\rtlch \ltrch\loch\f5\fs24\lang1033\i0\b0 It is one of the grand clich\'e9s of social theory (going back to Toennies, Weber, and Durkheim) that locality as a property or diacritic of social life comes under siege in modern societies. But locality is an inherently fragile social achievement. Even in t
he most intimate, spatially confined, geographicallY isolated situations, locality must be maintained carefully against various kinds of odds. 179 =}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s3\sl360\slmult1\sa232\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\langfe1033\hich\f5\fs24\lang1033\loch\f5\fs24\lang1033 {\rtlch \ltrch\loch\f5\fs24\lang1033\i0\b0 Locality or local knowledge is not only, or even mainly, embeddedness in a nonnegotiable here and now or its stubborn disinterest in things at large, although these are certainly crucial properties as Clifford Geertz has reminded us in much of his work (Ge
ertz 1975, 1983). Local knowledge is substantially about producing reliably local subjects as well as about producing reliably local neighborhoods within which such subjects can be recognized and organized. 181}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s3\sl360\slmult1\sa232\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\langfe1033\hich\f5\fs24\lang1033\loch\f5\fs24\lang1033 {\rtlch \ltrch\loch\f5\fs24\lang1033\i0\b0 lf a large part of the ethnographic record can be reread and rewritten as record of the multifarious modes for the production of locality, it follows that ethnography has been unwittingly complicity in this activity. 181 }
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s3\sl360\slmult1\sa232\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\langfe1033\hich\f5\fs24\lang1033\loch\f5\fs24\lang1033 {\rtlch \ltrch\loch\f5\fs24\lang1033\i0\b0 Drawn into the very localization they seek to document, most ethnographic descriptions have taken locality as ground not Figure, recognizing neither its fragility nor its ethos as a property of social life. This produces an unproblematized collaboration wi
th the sense of inertia on which locality, as a structure of feeling, centrally relies. (Appadurai, 1996, 182)}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s3\sl360\slmult1\sa232\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\langfe1033\hich\f5\fs24\lang1033\loch\f5\fs24\lang1033 
\par }