{\rtf1\ansi\deff1\adeflang1025
{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fprq2\fcharset0 Times New Roman{\*\falt Thorndale};}{\f1\fnil\fprq0\fcharset0 Trebuchet MS;}{\f2\fnil\fprq0\fcharset0 Trebuchet MS;}{\f3\fnil\fprq0\fcharset0 helvetica;}{\f4\fnil\fprq2\fcharset0 HG Mincho Light J;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;}
{\stylesheet{\s1\cf0\rtlch\af1\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af4\snext1 Default;}
{\s2\sa346\cf0\sl360\slmult1\rtlch\af1\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af4\sbasedon1\snext2 Text body;}
{\s3\sa346\cf0\sl360\slmult1\rtlch\af1\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af4\sbasedon2\snext3 List;}
{\s4\sb120\sa120\cf0\rtlch\af1\afs20\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af4\afs20\loch\fs20\i\sbasedon1\snext4 Caption;}
{\s5\cf0\rtlch\af1\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af4\sbasedon1\snext5 Index;}
{\s6\li283\ri0\fi0\sa346\cf0\sl360\slmult1\rtlch\af1\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af4\sbasedon2\snext6 Text body indent;}
{\*\cs8\cf0\rtlch\af1\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af4\loch\i Emphasis;}
}
{\info{\comment StarWriter}{\vern6410}}\deftab1250
{\*\pgdsctbl
{\pgdsc0\pgdscuse195\pgwsxn11905\pghsxn16837\marglsxn1134\margrsxn1134\margtsxn1134\margbsxn1134\pgdscnxt0 Default;}}
\paperh16837\paperw11905\margl1134\margr1134\margt1134\margb1134\sectd\sbknone\pgwsxn11905\pghsxn16837\marglsxn1134\margrsxn1134\margtsxn1134\margbsxn1134\ftnbj\ftnstart1\ftnrstcont\ftnnar\aenddoc\aftnrstcont\aftnstart1\aftnnrlc
\pard\plain \s2\sa346\cf0\sl360\slmult1\rtlch\af1\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af4\rtlch\af3\ltrch\dbch\af3\loch\f3 {\ltrch\loch\f3 Foucault, Michel, {\i The Archaelogy of Knowledge, } Tavistock, 1972}
\par \pard\plain \s2\sa346\cf0\sl360\slmult1\rtlch\af1\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af4 {\ltrch\loch\f1 the object does not await in limbo the order that will free it and enable it to become embodied in a visible and prolix objectivity; it does not pre-exist itself, held back by some obstacle at the first edges of light. It exists under the positive conditio
ns of a complex group of relations {\*\bkmkstart DDE_LINK1}{\*\bkmkend DDE_LINK1}(Foucault, Ch 1, 1972)}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f1 What, in short, we wish to do is to dispense with 'things'. To 'depresentify' them. To conjure up their rich, heavy, immediate plenitude, which we usually regard as the primitive law of a discourse that has become divorced from it through error, oblivion, 
illusion, ignorance, or the inertia of beliefs and traditions, or even the perhaps unconscious desire not to see and not to speak. To substitute for the enigmatic treasure of 'things' anterior to discourse, the regular formation of objects that emerge only
 in discourse. To define these {\i objects }without reference to the {\i ground, the foundation of things, }but by relating them to the body of rules that enable them to form as objects of a discourse and thus constitute the conditions of their historical appearance
. To write a history of discursive objects that does not plunge them into the common depth of a primal soil, but deploys the nexus of regularities that govern their dispersion. (Foucault, Ch 1, 1972)}
\par \pard\plain \s2\sa346\cf0\sl360\slmult1\rtlch\af1\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af4\ltrch\loch\f3 {\ltrch\loch\f3 The general system of the formation and transformation of statements," the "law of what can be said, the system that governs the appearance of statements as unique events" ({\*\cs8\cf0\rtlch\ltrch\dbch\loch\i Archaeology} 127 and 129). }
\par \pard\plain \s2\sa346\cf0\sl360\slmult1\rtlch\af1\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af4 {\ltrch\loch\f1 The never completed, never wholly achieved uncovering of the archive forms the general horizon to which the description of discursive formations, the analysis of positivities, the mapping of the enunciative field belong. The right of words - which is not t
hat of the philologists - authorizes, therefore, the use of the term {\b archaeology} to describe all these searches. This term does not imply the search for a beginning; it does not relate analysis to geological excavation. It designates the general theme of a
 description that questions the already-said at the level of its existence: of the enunciative function that operates within it, of the discursive formation, and the general archive system to which it belongs. Archaeology describes discourses as practices 
specified in the element of the archive ({\*\cs8\cf0\rtlch\ltrch\dbch\loch\i Archaeology} 131). }
\par 
\par }