Statement of the Jury
Members of the jury at the Prix Ars Electronica Jury .net 1999: 

Golden Nica for Linux/ Linus Torvalds (Finland) "LINUX" 

http://prixars.aec.at/history/index_e.html

From the start, Linux was a so-called "open-source" project, which means that the source code is freely available and can be copied and redistributed without fees or royalties. The source code for Linux is available on the Internet to anyone who wants it. By releasing his work on the Internet, Linus Torvalds quickly found a slew of skilled allies, who also began working on this new operating system. Programmers simultaneously began working on various tools and programs to support Linux. Everyone was invited to join in the work, and within a few years Linux became the most frequently used Unix-clone on conventional PCs. None of this would have been possible without the Internet and especially Usenet. Most of the programmers were not "personally" acquainted with one another, but rather through e-mail contacts and joint discussions in newsgroups. In recent years Linux has become the most important server operating system on the Internet. Leading companies in the electronics industry, such as IBM, Oracle, HP and SAP, announced their support for Linux last year, which has already partly been put into effect. The Jury of the .net category awards the 1999 Golden Nica to Linus Torvalds as representing all of those, who have worked on this project in past years and will be participating in it in the future. One of the most important arguments for the jury was the fact that Linux is one of the first products to come out of the cyberspace of the Internet, which has had an enormous impact on the "real" world. In addition, Linux could only have been created in this form on and with the Internet. This Golden Nica is also intended to be a sign that the .net category is not a prize for the most beautiful or most interesting homepage on the World Wide Web. This prize is for all projects on the net. It is also intended to spark a discussion about whether a source code itself can be an artwork. {#platform-making} {#art}
