{\rtf1\ansi\deff1\adeflang1025
{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fprq2\fcharset0 Times New Roman{\*\falt Thorndale};}{\f1\fnil\fprq0\fcharset0 Arial;}{\f2\fnil\fprq0\fcharset0 Trebuchet MS;}{\f3\fswiss\fprq2\fcharset0 Trebuchet MS;}{\f4\fnil\fprq0\fcharset0 Arial;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;}
{\stylesheet{\s1\sa227\cf1\sl360\slmult1{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe1033\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033\snext1 Default;}
{\s2\sa227\cf1\sl360\slmult1{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe1033\loch\f3\fs24\lang1033\sbasedon1\snext2 Text body;}
{\s3\sa227\cf1\sl360\slmult1{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe1033\loch\f2\fs24\lang1033\sbasedon2\snext3 List;}
{\s4\sb120\sa120\cf1\sl360\slmult1{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af1\afs20\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs20\langfe1033\loch\f2\fs20\lang1033\i\sbasedon1\snext4 Caption;}
{\s5\sa227\cf1\sl360\slmult1{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe1033\loch\f2\fs24\lang1033\sbasedon1\snext5 Index;}
}
{\info{\comment StarWriter}{\vern6380}}\deftab720
{\*\pgdsctbl
{\pgdsc0\pgdscuse195\pgwsxn11905\pghsxn16837\marglsxn1134\margrsxn1134\margtsxn1134\margbsxn1134\pgdscnxt0 Default;}}
\paperh16837\paperw11905\margl1134\margr1134\margt1134\margb1134\sectd\sbknone\pgwsxn11905\pghsxn16837\marglsxn1134\margrsxn1134\margtsxn1134\margbsxn1134\ftnbj\ftnstart1\ftnrstcont\ftnnar\aenddoc\aftnrstcont\aftnstart1\aftnnrlc
\pard\plain \s2\sa227\cf1\sl360\slmult1{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe1033\loch\f3\fs24\lang1033 
\par {\ltrch\loch\f3 Balibar, Etienne {\i Spinoza and Politics} tr. Peter Snowdon, Verso, London & New York, 1998}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f3 As a result, social relationships too must be imagined as both ideological relationships (in souls) and physical relationships (in bodies) that are exactly correlated with each other and that express the same desire for self-preservation on the part of the
 individual, whether that desire is compatible or not with the desires of other individuals and complexes of individuals (such as the nation or the State). 107}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f3 \ldblquote Desire is man's very essence" (11IP95). 105}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f3 A major part of Spinoza's originality is to have proposed that the object of desire is neither predetermined nor already defined, but is changeable and can be substituted. The one exception to this rule is the desire for rational knowledge (knowledge "by c
auses"), whose object is any singular thing. 107 }
\par {\ltrch\loch\f3 \ldblquote Essence" does not refer to a general idea of humanity, an abstract concept under which all individuals are subsumed and their differences neutralised. On the contrary, it refers precisely to the power that singularises each individual, conferring upon him
 a unique destiny. 107}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f3 It is the relationship of each individual to other individualities and their reciprocal actions and passions which determine the form of the individual's desire and actuate its power. Singularity is a trans-individual function. It is a function of communic
ation. 108}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f3 An idea, or a complex of ideas, is not a picture, an image of things deposited \ldblquote in the soul"; it is an action on the part of a thinking individual, who at the same time is affected by other individuals (human or not), or on the part of several individuals 
thinking together, that is, forming the same idea. 108}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f3 Every idea is always already accompanied by an affect (joy or sadness, and - as a consequence - love or hate, hope or fear, and so on). Conversely, every affect is tied to a representation (a verbal image or a concept). The strongest ideas, and in particul
ar \ldblquote adequate" ideas, winch are intrinsically true, are also the strongest affects. 108}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f3 The artificial distinction between knowledge and affectivity, which is part of the doctrine of both the intellectualist and the irrationalist, must therefore be replaced by another distinction: that between different types of knowledge, which correspond to
 different affective regimes. Together, these two elements form a "way of life". 109}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f3 There are two main types of knowledge, which Spinoza refers to as imagination and reason, and which stand in opposition to each other as passive to active. 109}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f3 The love which I feel for something is increased by the fact that this object is also loved (and therefore desired) by others, and is increased the more, the more people there are who love it. The convergence of all these affects and their reciprocal reinf
orcement of one another can constitute a form of social bond. But this simple schema needs to be qualified on two points. First, the reinforcement that is in question here is indeed an objective illusion: I imagine  that others love the same thing as I do 
(that our love is for the same object), and that they love it in the same way (with the same love as I have). Second, this reinforcement is ambivalent for it depends upon the feeling I have that l am impotent to obtain the good that I desire, on my hope th
at I may be able to obtain it through others and on my fear that they may deprive me of what I desire. It is  therefore able to change at any moment into its contrary; indeed, ut contains its contrary. As a result, the City that is constituted in this way 
rests on a psychic economy that is at once very powerful and highly unstable: this is what Spinoza calls "the imitation of affects" (imitatio affectuum), which , translated into modern terms, we might refer to as identification. 111}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f3 But since men are all, though to differing degrees, imaginative creatures, their communities must also rely upon mechanisms of identification, that is, on an imaginary excess of similarity. 111}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f3 Sociability rooted in the passions is therefore necessarily conflictual. But it is nevertheless a real  sociability. 112}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f3 Second, for Spinoza, nature is also history: a history without purpose, indeed, but not without a process, not without a movement of transformation (that is to say, no particular transformation is ever \ldblquote guaranteed"). 122}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f3 The individual is a construction. This construction is the result of a striving (conatus) by the individual himself, within the determinate conditions of his "way of life". And that '\rdblquote way of life" is nothing other than a given regime of communication (affe
ctive, economic or intellectual) with other individuals. The different regimes of communication form a sequence through which a collective effort is being worked out - the effort to transform the mode of communication, to move from relationships of identif
ication (that is, from the mode of communion) to relationships based on exchange of goods and of knowledge. 124}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f3 And it also identifies for us the decisive rnechanism by Which those new forms can be created: the democratisation of knowledge. 124}
\par }