{\rtf1\adeflang1025\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\adeff0\deff0\stshfdbch0\stshfloch0\stshfhich0\stshfbi0\deflang2057\deflangfe2057{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f1\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0604020202020204}Arial;}
{\f36\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0604030504040204}Tahoma;}{\f37\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0603020202020204}Trebuchet MS;}{\f41\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02040502050505030304}Palatino Linotype;}
{\f43\fnil\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}Nimbus Sans L{\*\falt Arial};}{\f44\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f45\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f47\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}
{\f48\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\f49\fbidi \froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\f50\fbidi \froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\f51\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}
{\f52\froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese);}{\f54\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Arial CE;}{\f55\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Arial Cyr;}{\f57\fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Arial Greek;}{\f58\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Arial Tur;}
{\f59\fbidi \fswiss\fcharset177\fprq2 Arial (Hebrew);}{\f60\fbidi \fswiss\fcharset178\fprq2 Arial (Arabic);}{\f61\fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Arial Baltic;}{\f62\fswiss\fcharset163\fprq2 Arial (Vietnamese);}{\f404\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Tahoma CE;}
{\f405\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Tahoma Cyr;}{\f407\fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Tahoma Greek;}{\f408\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Tahoma Tur;}{\f409\fbidi \fswiss\fcharset177\fprq2 Tahoma (Hebrew);}{\f410\fbidi \fswiss\fcharset178\fprq2 Tahoma (Arabic);}
{\f411\fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Tahoma Baltic;}{\f412\fswiss\fcharset163\fprq2 Tahoma (Vietnamese);}{\f413\fswiss\fcharset222\fprq2 Tahoma (Thai);}{\f414\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Trebuchet MS CE;}{\f415\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Trebuchet MS Cyr;}
{\f417\fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Trebuchet MS Greek;}{\f418\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Trebuchet MS Tur;}{\f421\fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Trebuchet MS Baltic;}{\f454\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Palatino Linotype CE;}
{\f455\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Palatino Linotype Cyr;}{\f457\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Palatino Linotype Greek;}{\f458\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Palatino Linotype Tur;}{\f461\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Palatino Linotype Baltic;}
{\f462\froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Palatino Linotype (Vietnamese);}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;
\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{
\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs24\alang1025 \ltrch\fcs0 \fs24\lang2057\langfe255\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp255 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive \ssemihidden Default Paragraph Font;}{\*
\ts11\tsrowd\trftsWidthB3\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\trcbpat1\trcfpat1\tblind0\tblindtype3\tscellwidthfts0\tsvertalt\tsbrdrt\tsbrdrl\tsbrdrb\tsbrdrr\tsbrdrdgl\tsbrdrdgr\tsbrdrh\tsbrdrv 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\wrapdefault\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs20 \ltrch\fcs0 \fs20\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\langnp1024\langfenp1024 \snext11 \ssemihidden Normal Table;}{
\s15\ql \li0\ri0\sb240\sa120\keepn\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \rtlch\fcs1 \af43\afs28\alang1025 \ltrch\fcs0 \f1\fs28\lang2057\langfe255\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp255 \sbasedon0 \snext16 Heading;}{
\s16\ql \li0\ri0\sa120\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs24\alang1025 \ltrch\fcs0 \fs24\lang2057\langfe255\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp255 \sbasedon0 \snext16 Body Text;}{
\s17\ql \li0\ri0\sa120\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \rtlch\fcs1 \af36\afs24\alang1025 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs24\lang2057\langfe255\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp255 \sbasedon16 \snext17 List;}{
\s18\ql \li0\ri0\sb120\sa120\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af36\afs20\alang1025 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f41\fs20\lang2057\langfe255\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp255 \sbasedon0 \snext18 caption;}{
\s19\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \rtlch\fcs1 \af36\afs24\alang1025 \ltrch\fcs0 \f37\fs24\lang2057\langfe255\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp255 \sbasedon0 \snext19 Index;}{
\s20\ql \li0\ri0\sb120\sa120\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af36\afs20\alang1025 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\f37\fs20\lang2057\langfe255\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp255 \sbasedon0 \snext20 WW-caption;}}
{\*\latentstyles\lsdstimax156\lsdlockeddef0}{\*\rsidtbl \rsid805463\rsid14824786}{\*\generator Microsoft Word 11.0.0000;}{\info{\operator mackenza}{\creatim\yr2005\mo11\dy3\hr10\min43}{\revtim\yr2008\mo2\dy20\hr10\min31}{\printim\yr2113\mo1\dy1}
{\version2}{\edmins5}{\nofpages3}{\nofwords994}{\nofchars5668}{\nofcharsws6649}{\vern24613}{\*\password 00000000}}{\*\xmlnstbl {\xmlns1 http://schemas.microsoft.com/office/word/2003/wordml}{\xmlns2 urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:smarttags}{\xmlns3 urn:s
chemas:contacts}{\xmlns4 isiresearchsoft-com/cwyw}}\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\gutter0\ltrsect 
\deftab706\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\donotembedsysfont0\donotembedlingdata1\grfdocevents0\validatexml0\showplaceholdtext0\ignoremixedcontent0\saveinvalidxml0\showxmlerrors0\horzdoc\dghspace120\dgvspace120\dghorigin1701\dgvorigin1984\dghshow0\dgvshow3
\jcompress\viewkind1\viewscale125\rsidroot14824786 \fet0{\*\wgrffmtfilter 013f}\ilfomacatclnup0\ltrpar \sectd \ltrsect\sbknone\linex0\sectdefaultcl\sftnbj {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2
\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang 
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \ltrpar\ql \li0\ri0\sa120\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs24\alang1025 \ltrch\fcs0 \fs24\lang2057\langfe255\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp255 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af1 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f1\insrsid14824786 Barney, {\*\xmlopen\xmlns2{\factoidname place}}{\*\xmlopen\xmlns3{\factoidname middlename}}D.{\*\xmlclose} {\*\xmlopen\xmlns3{\factoidname middlename}}D.{\*\xmlclose}{\*\xmlclose} (2004). }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af1 \ltrch\fcs0 
\f1\ul\insrsid14824786 The network society}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af1 \ltrch\fcs0 \f1\insrsid14824786 . {\*\xmlopen\xmlns2{\factoidname City}}Cambridge{\*\xmlclose} ; {\*\xmlopen\xmlns2{\factoidname place}}{\*\xmlopen\xmlns2{\factoidname City}}Malden{\*\xmlclose}
, {\*\xmlopen\xmlns2{\factoidname State}}MA{\*\xmlclose}{\*\xmlclose}, Polity.
\par }\pard \ltrpar\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \f1\insrsid14824786 \tab 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\ql \li0\ri0\sa120\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid14824786 {\*\xmlopen\xmlns4{\factoidname citation}}\{Barney, 2004 #728\}{\*\xmlclose}
\par The word 'network' describes a structural condition whereby distinct points (often called 'nodes') are related to one another by connections (often called 'ties') that are typically multiple, intersecting and often redundant. 2
\par The network society thesis is closely connected to the constellation of theories and analyses which arose in the 1980s under the banner of 'post-Fordism.' 10
\par Fordism, the accumulation regime which prevailed from the late nineteenth to the mid-twentieth century 10
\par New communications technologies and industries (i.e. Broadcast radio and television) provide
d media through which a mass culture of consumption could be manufactured, and the quasi-scientific practices of opinion polling, market research and advertising provided means for management of the mass audience and market. 12
\par The role of the state under the post-Fordist regime of accumulation is essentially to provide the conditions for flexibility, innovation and competitiveness. 15
\par The phrase 'network society' applies to societies that exhibit two fundamental characteristics. The first is the presence in those societies of sophisticated \endash  almost exclusively digital \endash 
 technologies of networked communication and information management/distribution, technologies which form the basic infrastructure mediating an increasing array of social, political and econo
mic practices.  ... the second, arguably more intriguing, characteristic of network societies is the reproduction and institutionalization throughout (and between) those societies of }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid14824786 networks }{
\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid14824786  as the basic form of human organization and relationship across a wide range of social, political and economic configurations and associations. 26
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid14824786 At the economic base of the network society is an 'informational' \endash  as opposed to strictly industrial \endash  capitalist economy. }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid14824786 28
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid14824786 The principal source of conflict and resistance in the network society is the contradiction between the placeless character of networks and the rootedness of human meaning. 31
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid14824786 Perhaps digital networks are to human communications what automated bread-making machines are to the baking of bread. 47
\par Thinking through the essence of technology can reveal a great deal to us about our specific encounter with digital networks. 49
\par Indeed it is arguable that the tendency for technological designs to constitute political arrangements
 is most pronounced in the area of communications, a human practice that is indispensable to, and often definitive of, political life more generally. 50 (e.g. Lessig)
\par Thus, the priorities of commerce and security have combined to create a situation that is pushing the outcome of network technology in a particular direction. 57
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \highlight7\insrsid14824786\charrsid14824786 It is arguable that the penetration of network technologies into workplaces, sites of production, the infrastructure of global commerce and the practice of warfare \endash 
 in a phrase, their use as }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\highlight7\insrsid14824786\charrsid14824786 technologies of systems control }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \highlight7\insrsid14824786\charrsid14824786 
 - will ultimately be more important to the shape of the network society that their use as technologies of interpersonal and mass communication. 60}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid14824786 
\par time-space compression, deterritorialization, decentralization, interactivity and customization,  61-68
\par To the extent it exists as a discernible historical formation, the network society is an outgrowth of the operation of capitalist economies under the auspices of digital technologies. 69
\par Capitalism, then, is the major element of the context in which the development of network technoogy, and the society it mediates, is situated. 71
\par These include capitalist globalization; the rise of the so-called 'new economy'; network enterprises; non-standard forms of work and employment; and the status of property. 71
\par The network enterprise is thus a deterritorialized (though sometimes regionalized) network of networks of economic nodes, a formation whose architecture resembles that of the advanced digital communication technologies that make it possible. 84
\par 
\par Re production: In this respect, the network technologies of digitized bar-cdoe scanners at supermarket checkout and netowkr computer reservation systems in call centres are perhaps more significant, in material terms, than the techn
ologies of online chat service, interactive entertainment websites, and electronic voting. 91
\par In some cases, digital technology often directly mediates the sort of non-standard work arrangements described above by enabling, for example, various spatially a
nd temporally dislocated work practices and the delivery of 'lifelong learning'/retraining online. 99
\par [W]hile it is true that network technology can pose challenges for the enforcement of intellectual property rights, and that network media hold out the pr
ospect of an economy in which information is non-proprietary and its circulation non-commercial, it is also true that capital has responded vigorously to these very challenges and prospects. 105
\par The new politics is thus a politics of struggling over information management and control in the 'space' constructed by prevailing media of communication, as a necessary precondition of access to more material forms of power. 122
\par Network technologies provide resources to both sides in this contest. 124
\par Even in countries where access to network technologies is relatively widespread, distinctly political uses of these instruments are the exception rather than the norm. 129
\par [N]etwork technologies might just as well serve to reinforce the undemocratic tendencies of contemporary mainstream politics, and perhaps even to undermine the possibility of their tranformatino in democractic directions. 135
\par It is possible that characterizations of the internet as a medium of extensive ostmodenr identity fabrication are exaggerated, 
insofar as they over-generalize acedotal evidnece of practices that are actually quite marginal in relation to the tendencies of mainstream internet use. 154
\par The internet is certain a mass medium in the sense that it reaches increasingly massive populations. However, it does not necessarily construct its users as a mass audience that pays attention to the same things at the same time. 172
\par The 'Network Society' is not just a descriptive name. It is also an elaborated discourse that, in purporting simply to d
escribe a set of contemporary social dynamics, provides a script that sets out roles, norms, expectations and the terms of dialogue. 179
\par The distinction I am drawing here is between the network society thesis as a tool of investigation and interpretation, and the rhetoric of the Network Society as an ideological discourse that serves a performative, prescriptive function. 181
\par }}