{\rtf1\ansi\deff3\adeflang1025
{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fprq2\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}{\f1\froman\fprq2\fcharset2 Symbol;}{\f2\fswiss\fprq2\fcharset0 Arial;}{\f3\froman\fprq2\fcharset128 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fswiss\fprq2\fcharset128 Arial;}{\f5\fnil\fprq2\fcharset128 MS Mincho;}{\f6\fnil\fprq2\fcharset128 Tahoma;}{\f7\fnil\fprq0\fcharset128 Tahoma;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;}
{\stylesheet{\s0\snext0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\aspalpha\ltrpar\cf0\kerning1\hich\af8\langfe255\dbch\af6\afs24\lang255\loch\f3\fs24\lang2057 Normal;}
{\s15\sbasedon0\snext16\sb240\sa120\keepn\hich\af5\dbch\af6\afs28\loch\f4\fs28 Heading;}
{\s16\sbasedon0\snext16\sb0\sa120 Text body;}
{\s17\sbasedon16\snext17\sb0\sa120\dbch\af7 List;}
{\s18\sbasedon0\snext18\sb120\sa120\noline\i\dbch\af7\afs24\ai\fs24 Caption;}
{\s19\sbasedon0\snext19\noline\dbch\af7 Index;}
}{\info{\author abm}{\creatim\yr2009\mo4\dy2\hr9\min22}{\author abm}{\revtim\yr2009\mo4\dy2\hr17\min4}{\printim\yr0\mo0\dy0\hr0\min0}{\comment LibreOffice}{\vern3300}}\deftab709

{\*\pgdsctbl
{\pgdsc0\pgdscuse195\pgwsxn11905\pghsxn16837\marglsxn1134\margrsxn1134\pgdscnxt0 Default;}}
\formshade\paperh16837\paperw11905\margl1134\margr1134\margt1134\margb1134\sectd\sbknone\sectunlocked1\pgndec\pgwsxn11905\pghsxn16837\marglsxn1134\margrsxn1134\ftnbj\ftnstart1\ftnrstcont\ftnnar\aenddoc\aftnrstcont\aftnstart1\aftnnrlc
\pgndec\pard\plain \s16\sb0\sa120{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
\{Barry, 2007 #853\}}
\par \pard\plain \s16\sb0\sa120{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Barry, A. and Thrift, N. 2007 'Gabriel Tarde: imitation, invention and economy', Economy and Society 36(4): 509-525.}
\par \pard\plain \s16\sb0\sa120{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
The elementary social fact for Tarde is not the individual or collective consciousness, but the forms of relation through which difference is produced. Tarde\uc3 \u8217\'e2\'80\'99s work highlights, in particular, the importance of suggestion and imitation in social life and the limits of forms of analysis which confine themselves to the study of representation or inscription. 511\uc1 }
\par \pard\plain \s16\sb0\sa120{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Such a quantification has subsequently come about, although perhaps not exactly in the way that Tarde hoped or foresaw. Thus, a multiplicity of information that can be statistically manipulated is now available, from official statistics which are pored over by multiple agencies (such as those concerning interest rates or inflation) through the rise of large corporate databases which precisely try to track and trace the flow of consumer desires by using geodemographic and other consumer classifications, to the myriad pieces of information about individual consumer choice which circulate on the internet and can be aggregated in ways that attempt to trace the dynamics of the \uc3 \u8216\'e2\'80\'98inter-psychological\u8217\'e2\'80\'99 517\uc1 }
\par \pard\plain \s16\sb0\sa120{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
}
\par \pard\plain \s16\sb0\sa120{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
But Tarde meant to go farther than simply adding another factor of production to the standard triptych of land, labour, and capital. For Tarde, invention was key to social evolution 518}
\par \pard\plain \s16\sb0\sa120{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
}
\par \pard\plain \s16\sb0\sa120{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
But fundamental to invention is imitation, and for Tarde the modern economy is also a machine for promoting passionate imitation. 518}
\par \pard\plain \s16\sb0\sa120{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
It is an economy which depends on tracking as well as generating the propagation of desires. 519}
\par \pard\plain \s16\sb0\sa120{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
}
\par \pard\plain \s16\sb0\sa120{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
there is no specific fabric to economic life in Tarde, as there is for Schumpeter. Second, Tarde\uc3 \u8217\'e2\'80\'99s notion of the inventor or creator should not be equated with the figure of the entrepreneur in Schumpeter. The inventor might be understood as a point of interference or conjunction between lines of imitation as we have noted. 519\uc1 }
\par \pard\plain \s16\sb0\sa120{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
}
\par \pard\plain \s16\sb0\sa120{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
He was concerned, as we have seen, with the analysis of the very smallest variations and transformations in style, pronunciation, habit and technology. 521}
\par \pard\plain \s16\sb0\sa120{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
For the dynamics of this economy depend on an increasingly tight feedback between forms of economic and political organization and the desires, concerns and passionate interests of consumers and citizens. 521}
\par \pard\plain \s16\sb0\sa120\sb0\sa120{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
}
\par }