{\rtf1\ansi\deff1\adeflang1025
{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fprq2\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fnil\fprq0\fcharset0 Trebuchet MS;}{\f2\fnil\fprq0\fcharset0 Trebuchet MS;}{\f3\fnil\fprq0\fcharset0 Bitstream Courier;}{\f4\fnil\fprq2\fcharset0 Lucida Sans Unicode;}{\f5\fnil\fprq2\fcharset0 Tahoma;}{\f6\fnil\fprq0\fcharset0 Tahoma;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;}
{\stylesheet{\s1\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af5\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af4\afs24\langfe2052\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\snext1 Default;}
{\s2\sa120\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af5\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af4\afs24\langfe2052\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\sbasedon1\snext2 Text body;}
{\s3\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af6\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af4\afs24\langfe2052\loch\fs24\lang2057\sbasedon2\snext3 List;}
{\s4\sb120\sa120\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af6\afs20\lang255\ai\ltrch\dbch\af4\afs20\langfe2052\ai\loch\fs20\lang2057\i\sbasedon1\snext4 Caption;}
{\s5\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af6\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af4\afs24\langfe2052\loch\fs24\lang2057\sbasedon1\snext5 Index;}
}
{\info{\author abm}{\creatim\yr2005\mo2\dy10\hr9\min49}{\operator abm}{\revtim\yr2005\mo2\dy10\hr9\min51}{\printim\yr1601\mo1\dy1\hr0\min0}{\comment StarWriter}{\vern6450}}\deftab709
{\*\pgdsctbl
{\pgdsc0\pgdscuse195\pgwsxn11905\pghsxn16837\marglsxn1134\margrsxn1134\margtsxn1134\margbsxn1134\pgdscnxt0 Default;}}
\paperh16837\paperw11905\margl1134\margr1134\margt1134\margb1134\sectd\sbknone\pgwsxn11905\pghsxn16837\marglsxn1134\margrsxn1134\margtsxn1134\margbsxn1134\ftnbj\ftnstart1\ftnrstcont\ftnnar\aenddoc\aftnrstcont\aftnstart1\aftnnrlc
\pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\rtlch\af5\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af4\afs24\langfe2052\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057 {\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 \{Bergson, 1911 #627\}}
\par {\loch\f3\fs28\lang2057\i0\b0\lang2057\fs28\f3 Bergson, H. L. and A. Mitchell (1911). {\ul Creative evolution}{\ulnone . New York,, H. Holt and company.}}
\par {\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 Whether nature be conceived as an immense machine regulated by mathematical laws, or as the realization of a plan, these two ways of regarding it are only the consummation of two tendencies of mind which are complementary to each other, and which have thei
r origin in the same vital necessities. 45}
\par {\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 In considering reality, mechanism regards only the aspect of similarity or repetition. It is therefore dominated by this law, that in nature there is only {\i like}{\i0  reproducing }{\i like. }The more the geometry in mechanism is emphasised, the less can mechanism admit
 that anything is every created, even pure form. In so far as we are geometricians, then, we reject the unforeseeable.{\i0 45}}
\par {\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 Repetition is only possible in the abstract: what is repeated is some aspect that our senses, and especially our intellect, have singled out from reality, just because our action, upon which all the effort of our intellect is directed, can move only among 
repetitions. 46}
\par {\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 The feeling we have of our evolution and of the evolution of all things in pure duration is there, forming around the intellectual concept properly so-called an indistinct fringe that fades off into darkness. Mechanism and finalism agree in taking account 
only of the bright nucleus shining in the centre. 46}
\par }