{\rtf1\ansi\deff1\adeflang1025
{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fprq2\fcharset128 Liberation Serif{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f1\froman\fprq0\fcharset0 Palatino;}{\f2\froman\fprq0\fcharset0 Palatino;}{\f3\fswiss\fprq0\fcharset0 Arial;}{\f4\fswiss\fprq0\fcharset0 Trebuchet MS;}{\f5\fnil\fprq0\fcharset0 Times{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f6\fswiss\fprq2\fcharset0 Nimbus Sans L{\*\falt Arial};}{\f7\fnil\fprq2\fcharset0 HG Mincho Light J{\*\falt msmincho};}{\f8\fnil\fprq0\fcharset128 Lohit Hindi;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;}
{\stylesheet{\s1\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af6\afs24\lang1081\ltrch\dbch\af6\langfe255\hich\f1\fs24\lang1033\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033\snext1 Normal;}
{\s2\sb240\sa120\keepn\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af3\afs28\lang1081\ltrch\dbch\af7\langfe255\hich\f3\fs28\lang1033\loch\f3\fs28\lang1033\sbasedon1\snext3 Heading;}
{\s3\sa120\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af6\afs24\lang1081\ltrch\dbch\af6\langfe255\hich\f1\fs24\lang1033\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033\sbasedon1\snext3 Body Text;}
{\s4\sa120\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af4\afs24\lang1081\ltrch\dbch\af6\langfe255\hich\f4\fs24\lang1033\loch\f4\fs24\lang1033\sbasedon3\snext4 List;}
{\s5\sb120\sa120\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af8\afs24\lang1081\ai\ltrch\dbch\af6\langfe255\hich\f1\fs24\lang1033\i\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033\i\sbasedon1\snext5 caption;}
{\s6\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af4\afs24\lang1081\ltrch\dbch\af6\langfe255\hich\f4\fs24\lang1033\loch\f4\fs24\lang1033\sbasedon1\snext6 Index;}
{\s7\sb120\sa120\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af6\afs24\lang1081\ai\ltrch\dbch\af6\langfe255\hich\f1\fs24\lang1033\i\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033\i\sbasedon1\snext7 caption;}
{\s8\sb120\sa120\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af5\afs24\lang1081\ai\ltrch\dbch\af6\langfe255\hich\f5\fs24\lang1033\i\loch\f5\fs24\lang1033\i\sbasedon1\snext8 WW-caption;}
{\s9\sb120\sa120\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af4\afs20\lang1081\ai\ltrch\dbch\af6\langfe255\hich\f4\fs20\lang1033\i\loch\f4\fs20\lang1033\i\sbasedon1\snext9 WW-caption1;}
{\s10\sb120\sa120\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af4\afs20\lang1081\ai\ltrch\dbch\af6\langfe255\hich\f4\fs20\lang1033\i\loch\f4\fs20\lang1033\i\sbasedon1\snext10 WW-caption11;}
}
{\info{\creatim\yr2008\mo2\dy1\hr15\min40}{\revtim\yr1601\mo1\dy1\hr0\min0}{\printim\yr1601\mo1\dy1\hr0\min0}{\comment StarWriter}{\vern3200}}\deftab709
{\*\pgdsctbl
{\pgdsc0\pgdscuse195\pgwsxn11905\pghsxn16837\marglsxn1134\margrsxn1134\margtsxn1134\margbsxn1134\pgdscnxt0 Standard;}}
{\*\pgdscno0}\paperh16837\paperw11905\margl1134\margr1134\margt1134\margb1134\sectd\sbknone\pgwsxn11905\pghsxn16837\marglsxn1134\margrsxn1134\margtsxn1134\margbsxn1134\ftnbj\ftnstart1\ftnrstcont\ftnnar\aenddoc\aftnrstcont\aftnstart1\aftnnrlc
\pard\plain \ltrpar\s3\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\ql\rtlch\af6\afs24\lang1081\ltrch\dbch\af6\langfe255\hich\fs24\lang1033\loch\fs24\lang1033 {\rtlch \ltrch\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033\i0\b0 Bourdieu, P. (2000). {\ul\ulc0 Pascalian meditations}. Stanford, Calif., Stanford University Press.}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s3\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\ql\rtlch\af6\afs24\lang1081\ltrch\dbch\af6\langfe255\hich\f1\fs24\lang1033\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033 {\rtlch \ltrch\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033\i0\b0 Thus the only possible foundation of law is to be sought in history, which, precsiely, abolishes any kind of foundation. 94}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s3\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\ql\rtlch\af6\afs24\lang1081\ltrch\dbch\af6\langfe255\hich\f1\fs24\lang1033\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033 {\rtlch \ltrch\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033\i0\b0 Arbitrariness is also the basis of all fields, even the 'purest' ones, like the worlds of art of science. Each of them has its 'fundamental law', its {\rtlch\ltrch\dbch\hich\i\loch\i nomos }(a word that is normally tranlsated as 'law' and would be better rendered as 'constitutions', a term
 which better recalls the arbitrary act of institution, or as 'principle of vision and division', which is closer to the etymology). 96}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s3\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\ql\rtlch\af6\afs24\lang1081\ltrch\dbch\af6\langfe255\hich\f1\fs24\lang1033\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033 {\rtlch \ltrch\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033\i0\b0 The principle of vision and division and the mode of knowledge (religious, philosophical, juridical, scientific, artistic, etc.) which prevails in a field, in association with a specific form of expression, can only be known and understood in relation to t
he specific legality of that field as a social microcosm. 99}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s3\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\ql\rtlch\af6\afs24\lang1081\ltrch\dbch\af6\langfe255\hich\f1\fs24\lang1033\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033 {\rtlch \ltrch\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033\i0\b0 The epistemic unconscious is the history of the field. And it is clear that. to secure some chance of  really knowing what one is doing, one has to unfold what is incribed in the various relations of implication in which the thinker and his thought are cua
ght up, that is, the presupposition he engages and the inclusions or exclusions he unwittingly performs. 99}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s3\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\ql\rtlch\af6\afs24\lang1081\ltrch\dbch\af6\langfe255\hich\f1\fs24\lang1033\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033 {\rtlch \ltrch\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033\i0\b0 The experience of the transcendence of scientific objects, especially mathematical ones, that essentialist theories invoke is the particular form of {\rtlch\ltrch\dbch\hich\i\loch\i illusio} which arises in the relationship between agents possessing the habitus socially required by the fie
ld and symbolic systems capable of imposing their demands on those who perceive them and operate them, and endowed with an autonomy closely linked to that of the field (which explains why the sense of transcendent necessity rises with the capital of accumu
lated resources and the qualifications demanded for entry) 113-114.}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s3\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\ql\rtlch\af6\afs24\lang1081\ltrch\dbch\af6\langfe255\hich\f1\fs24\lang1033\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033 {\rtlch \ltrch\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033\i0\b0 Mathematical symbols ... become live and active ... only in r{el}ation to a space of agents inclined and able to bring this autonomous symbolic space into active existence by making it operate in accordance with the rules that define it. 114}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s3\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\ql\rtlch\af6\afs24\lang1081\ltrch\dbch\af6\langfe255\hich\f1\fs24\lang1033\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033 {\rtlch \ltrch\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033\i0\b0 If there is a truth, it is that truth is a stake in struggles. 118}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s3\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\ql\rtlch\af6\afs24\lang1081\ltrch\dbch\af6\langfe255\hich\f1\fs24\lang1033\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033 {\rtlch \ltrch\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033\i0\b0 [T]here can be thought about thought which offers thought the possibility of a genuine {\rtlch\ltrch\dbch\hich\i\loch\i freedom } with respect to those conditions. 118}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s3\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\ql\rtlch\af6\afs24\lang1081\ltrch\dbch\af6\langfe255\hich\f1\fs24\lang1033\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033 {\rtlch \ltrch\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033\i0\b0 To practise reflexivity means questioning the privilege of a knowing 'subject' arbitrarily excluded from the effort of objectification. 119}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s3\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\ql\rtlch\af6\afs24\lang1081\ltrch\dbch\af6\langfe255\hich\f1\fs24\lang1033\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033 {\rtlch \ltrch\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033\i0\b0 By endeavouring to intensify awareness of the limits that thought owes to its social conditions of production and to destroy the illusion of the absence of limits or of freedom from all determinations which leaves thought defenceless against these determin
ations, it aims to offer the possibility of a real freedom with respect to the determinations that it reveals. 121}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s3\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\ql\rtlch\af6\afs24\lang1081\ltrch\dbch\af6\langfe255\hich\f1\fs24\lang1033\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033 {\rtlch \ltrch\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033\i0\b0 The universal is the object of an official recognition and the recognition  universally given to the sacrificing of selfish interests (especially economic ones) universally favours the strategies of universalization, through the undeniable symbolic profits
 it provides. 125}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s3\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\ql\rtlch\af6\afs24\lang1081\ltrch\dbch\af6\langfe255\hich\f1\fs24\lang1033\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033 {\rtlch \ltrch\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033\i0\b0 'By space the universe comprehends and swallows mu up like an atom; by though I comprehend the world.' 130}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s3\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\ql\rtlch\af6\afs24\lang1081\ai\ltrch\dbch\af6\langfe255\hich\f1\fs24\lang1033\i\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033\i {\rtlch \ltrch\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033\i\b0 Illusio  is that of being in  the world, of being occupied by the world, which means that an agent can be affected by something very distant, even absent, if it participates in the game in which he is engaged. 135}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s3\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\ql\rtlch\af6\afs24\lang1081\ltrch\dbch\af6\langfe255\hich\f1\fs24\lang1033\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033 {\rtlch \ltrch\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033\i0\b0 [I]f the agent has an immediate understanding of the familiar world, this is because the cognitive structures that he implements are the product of incorporation of the structures of the world in which he acts; the instruments of construction that he uses 
to know the world are constructed by the world 136.}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s3\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\ql\rtlch\af6\afs24\lang1081\ltrch\dbch\af6\langfe255\hich\f1\fs24\lang1033\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033 {\rtlch \ltrch\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033\i0\b0 The language of strategy ... must not mislead us: the most effective strategies, especially in those fields dominated by values of disinterestedness, are those which, being the product of dispositions shaped by the immanent necessity of the field, tend to 
adjust themselves spontaneously to that necessity, without express intention or calculation. In other words, the agent is never completely the subject of his practices. 138}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s3\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\ql\rtlch\af6\afs24\lang1081\ltrch\dbch\af6\langfe255\hich\f1\fs24\lang1033\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033 {\rtlch \ltrch\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033\i0\b0 Phenomenological description, though indispensable in order to break with the scholastic vision  of the ordinary vision of the world, and while it comes close to the real, is liable to stand in the way of a full understanding of practical understanding, an
d of practice itself, because it is totally ahistorical and anti-genetic. 147}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s3\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\ql\rtlch\af6\afs24\lang1081\ltrch\dbch\af6\langfe255\hich\f1\fs24\lang1033\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033 {\rtlch \ltrch\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033\i0\b0 Action is neither 'purely reactive', as Weber's phrase, nor purely conscious and calculated. Through the cognitive and motivating structures that it brings into play (which always depend, in part, on the field, acting as a field of forces, of which it is t
he product), habitus plays its part in determining things to be done, or not to be done, the urgencies, etc., which trigger action. 148}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s3\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\ql\rtlch\af6\afs24\lang1081\ltrch\dbch\af6\langfe255\hich\f1\fs24\lang1033\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033 {\rtlch \ltrch\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033\i0\b0 In modern societies, the State makes a decisive contribution towards the production and reproduction of the instruments of construction of social reality. 175}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s3\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\ql\rtlch\af6\afs24\lang1081\ltrch\dbch\af6\langfe255\hich\f1\fs24\lang1033\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033 {\rtlch \ltrch\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033\i0\b0 The social world is full of {\rtlch\ltrch\dbch\hich\i\loch\i calls to order } which function as such only for individuals who are predisposed to notice them, and which, as a red light cause braking, trigger deep-rooted bodily dispositions without passing through consciousness and calculati
on. 176}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s3\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\ql\rtlch\af6\afs24\lang1081\ltrch\dbch\af6\langfe255\hich\f1\fs24\lang1033\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033 {\rtlch \ltrch\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033\i0\b0 Thus, one cannot really describe the relationship between agents and the world except by placing at the centre the body and the process of incorporation, which both physicalist objectivism and marginalist subjectivism ignore. The structures of the social s
pace (or of fields) shape bodies by inculcating in them , through the conditionings associated with a position in that space, the cognitive structures that these conditionings apply to them. More precisely, the social world, because it is an object of know
ledge for those who are included in it, is, in part, the reified or incorporate product of all the different (and rival) acts of knowledge of which it is the object. 183}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s3\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\ql\rtlch\af6\afs24\lang1081\ltrch\dbch\af6\langfe255\hich\f1\fs24\lang1033\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033 
\par }