{\rtf1\ansi\deff1\adeflang1025
{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fprq2\fcharset0 Times New Roman{\*\falt Thorndale};}{\f1\fswiss\fprq2\fcharset0 Trebuchet MS;}{\f2\fnil\fprq2\fcharset0 HG Mincho Light J;}{\f3\fswiss\fprq2\fcharset0 Trebuchet MS;}{\f4\fswiss\fprq2\fcharset0 Arial;}{\f5\froman\fprq2\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}{\f6\fnil\fprq2\fcharset0 Arial Unicode MS;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;}
{\stylesheet{\s1\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe1033\loch\fs24\lang255\snext1 Default;}
{\s2\sa120\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe1033\loch\fs24\lang255\sbasedon1\snext2 Text body;}
{\s3\sa120\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe1033\loch\fs24\lang255\sbasedon2\snext3 List;}
{\s4\sb120\sa120\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af1\afs20\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs20\langfe1033\loch\fs20\lang255\i\sbasedon1\snext4 Caption;}
{\s5\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe1033\loch\fs24\lang255\sbasedon1\snext5 Index;}
{\s6\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\aspalpha\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\fs24\lang2057\sbasedon1\snext6 Normal;}
{\s7\cf0\tqc\tx4818\tqr\tx9637{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe1033\loch\fs24\lang255\sbasedon1\snext7 Header;}
{\s8\cf0\tqc\tx4818\tqr\tx9637{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe1033\loch\fs24\lang255\sbasedon1\snext8 Footer;}
{\s9\sb240\sa120\keepn\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af6\afs28\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af2\afs28\langfe1033\loch\f4\fs28\lang255\sbasedon1\snext2 Heading;}
{\*\cs11\cf0\rtlch\af1\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\loch\f5\lang1033\sbasedon12 Default Paragraph Font;}
{\*\cs12\cf0\rtlch\af1\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\loch\f5 Normal;}
}
{\info{\comment StarWriter}{\vern6410}}\deftab720
{\*\pgdsctbl
{\pgdsc0\pgdscuse195\pgwsxn12240\pghsxn15840\marglsxn1800\margrsxn1800\margtsxn1440\margbsxn1440\pgdscnxt0 Default;}
{\pgdsc1\pgdscuse195\pgwsxn12240\pghsxn15840\marglsxn1800\margrsxn1800\margtsxn720\margbsxn720\headery0{\*\headeryb0\headerxl0\headerxr0\headeryh720}{\header \pard\plain \s7\cf0\tqc\tx4818\tqr\tx9637{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe1033\loch\fs24\lang255\tqc\tx4818\tqr\tx9637\ltrch\dbch\langfe1033\loch\f5\lang255 
\par }
\footery0{\*\footeryt0\footerxl0\footerxr0\footeryh720}{\footer \pard\plain \s8\cf0\tqc\tx4818\tqr\tx9637{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe1033\loch\fs24\lang255\tqc\tx4818\tqr\tx9637\ltrch\dbch\langfe1033\loch\f5\lang255 
\par }
\pgdscnxt1 Convert 1;}}
{\*\pgdscno1}\paperh15840\paperw12240\margl1800\margr1800\margt720\margb720\sectd\sbknone\pgwsxn12240\pghsxn15840\marglsxn1800\margrsxn1800\margtsxn1440\margbsxn994\headery720{\header \pard\plain \s7\cf0\tqc\tx4818\tqr\tx9637{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe1033\loch\fs24\lang255\tqc\tx4818\tqr\tx9637\ltrch\dbch\langfe1033\loch\f5\lang255 
\par }
\footery720{\footer \pard\plain \s8\cf0\tqc\tx4818\tqr\tx9637{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe1033\loch\fs24\lang255\tqc\tx4818\tqr\tx9637\ltrch\dbch\langfe1033\loch\f5\lang255 
\par }
\ftnbj\ftnstart1\ftnrstcont\ftnnar\aenddoc\aftnrstcont\aftnstart1\aftnnrlc
\pard\plain \s2\sa120\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe1033\loch\fs24\lang255 {\ltrch\loch\f1 Information mythology The world of/as information}
\par \pard\plain \s2\sa120\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe1033\loch\fs24\lang255 {\ltrch\loch\f1 Geoffrey Bowker}
\par 
\par {\ltrch\loch\f1 Information acumen The understanding and use of knowledge in modern business}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f1 Edited by Lisa Bud-Frierman 1994 Routledge}
\par 
\par {\ltrch\loch\f1 It is clear that both scientists and others have only a limited set of tools for storing and analysing information - Ian Hacking (1990), following Crombie (1961), speaks of six. The encyclopaedic form, which emerged in the late eighteenth century, might be
 useful when one is only dealing with a constrained body of data. However, with the information explosion that followed from the industrial revolution new tools were developed. Two of these - statistics and genetic classifications - spread widely across so
cial and natural science in the nineteenth century. Hacking has shovn how statistical techniques (note that the root of the word \lquote statistics' is (state')) travelled between astronomy and social science and back again; until now courses in }
\par {\ltrch\loch\f1 most sciences are inconceivable without a training in statistics. 233}
\par 
\par {\ltrch\loch\f1 Patrick Tort (1989) has traced the spread of genetic classification systems (systems where classification is based on the origin and history of the thing being classified) across linguistics, mineralogy, biology and other sciences. With such a system, a si
ngle classification and a rule for development can be used to compress data otherwise being held in a variety of different sources. 234}
\par 
\par {\ltrch\loch\f1 Central to these new work practices was the development of new types of spatial and temporal packaging of information. Indeed both the statistical form and genetic classifications are, in the form primarily of Darwin's evolutionary theory which combined bo
th and the second law of thermodynamics, associated with major changes in  world view in the nineteenth century about the nature of time. They provided an arrow to time together with a new way of storing data by offering the historicization of the biologic
al world and of the universe as a whole. Proponents of genetic classifications offered new spatial packaging too by treating time as another spatial dimension. They argued the equivalence between going out in space and back in time in sociology, biology an
d astronomy. Statistical analysts deal in aggregates distributed in space (gases, peoples) that had previously been inaccessible to scientific reasoning. 234}
\par 
\par {\ltrch\loch\f1 This suggests the need for a general form of investigation, as follows. Take a claim that has been made by advocates of a particular piece of science/technology, then look at the infrastructural changes that preceded or accompanied the effects claimed and 
see if they are sufficient to explain those effects - then ask how the initial claim came a posteriori to be seen as reasonable. 235}
\par 
\par {\ltrch\loch\f1 When we operate this infrastructural inversion, we can see that there is a clear link between the nature of the universe and the way to run a business. Information mythology is not an epiphenomenon generated out of thin, hot air: it describes an integral p
art of the economic process of ordering social and natural space and time so that subjective' information can circulate freely. The global statement that everything is information is not a preordained fact about the world, it becomes a fact as and when we 
make it so. 245}
\par 
\par {\ltrch\loch\f1 Hacking, I. (1990) {\i 7he Taming of Chance}, Cambridge: Cambridge University}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f1 Tort, P. (1989) La Raison classificatoire: quinze etudes, Paris: Aubier.}
\par }