{\rtf1\ansi\deff1\adeflang1025
{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fprq2\fcharset0 Nimbus Roman No9 L;}{\f1\froman\fprq2\fcharset0 Nimbus Roman No9 L;}{\f2\fnil\fprq2\fcharset0 Andale Sans UI{\*\falt Arial Unicode MS};}{\f3\fnil\fprq0\fcharset0 Trebuchet MS;}{\f4\fnil\fprq0\fcharset0 Arial;}{\f5\froman\fprq2\fcharset0 Nimbus Roman No9 L;}{\f6\fnil\fprq2\fcharset0 Mincho;}{\f7\fnil\fprq2\fcharset0 Tahoma{\*\falt Lucidasans};}{\f8\fnil\fprq0\fcharset0 Tahoma{\*\falt Lucidasans};}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;}
{\stylesheet{\s1\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af7\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af2\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\snext1 Default;}
{\s2\sb240\sa120\keepn\rtlch\af1\afs28\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af6\afs28\langfe255\loch\f4\fs28\lang2057\sbasedon1\snext3 Heading;}
{\s3\sa120\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\afs24\langfe255\loch\fs24\lang2057\sbasedon1\snext3 Text body;}
{\s4\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af8\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\sbasedon3\snext4 List;}
{\s5\sb120\sa120\rtlch\af8\afs20\lang255\ai\ltrch\dbch\afs20\langfe255\ai\loch\fs20\lang2057\i\sbasedon1\snext5 Caption;}
{\s6\rtlch\af8\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\afs24\langfe255\loch\fs24\lang2057\sbasedon1\snext6 Index;}
}
{\info{\creatim\yr2004\mo8\dy6\hr15\min42}{\revtim\yr1601\mo1\dy1\hr0\min0}{\printim\yr1601\mo1\dy1\hr0\min0}{\comment StarWriter}{\vern6450}}\deftab709
{\*\pgdsctbl
{\pgdsc0\pgdscuse195\pgwsxn11905\pghsxn16837\marglsxn1134\margrsxn1134\margtsxn1134\margbsxn1134\pgdscnxt0 Default;}}
{\*\pgdscno0}\paperh16837\paperw11905\margl1134\margr1134\margt1134\margb1134\sectd\sbknone\pgwsxn11905\pghsxn16837\marglsxn1134\margrsxn1134\margtsxn1134\margbsxn1134\ftnbj\ftnstart1\ftnrstcont\ftnnar\aenddoc\aftnrstcont\aftnstart1\aftnnrlc
\pard\plain \ltrpar\s3\sa120\ql\rtlch\afs22\lang255\ltrch\dbch\afs22\langfe255\loch\f3\fs22\lang2057 {\loch\f3\fs22\lang2057\i0\b0 \{Buchanan, 2000 #458\}}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s3\sa120\ql\rtlch\afs22\lang255\ltrch\dbch\afs22\langfe255\loch\f3\fs22\lang2057 {\loch\f3\fs22\lang2057\i0\b0 Buchanan, M. (2000). {\ul Ubiquity : the science of history - or why the world is simpler than we}. London, Weidenfeld & Nicolson.}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s3\sa120\ql\rtlch\afs22\lang255\ltrch\dbch\afs22\langfe255\loch\f3\fs22\lang2057 {\loch\f3\fs22\lang2057\i0\b0 So chaos {\i by }itself cannot explain why a butterfly can cause a thunderstorm. Chaos may indeed explain why a tiny cause can quickly make the future {\i different in its details }(the positions of many molecules) from what it might have been. But to explain why ti
ny causes can ultimately lead to great upheavals, we need something else. We may say that although chaos can explain simple unpredictability, it cannot explain {\i upheavability. }15}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s3\sa120\ql\rtlch\afs22\lang255\ai\ltrch\dbch\afs22\langfe255\ai\loch\f3\fs22\lang2057\i {\loch\f3\fs22\lang2057\i\b0 [T]he ubiquity of the critical state may well be considered the first really solid discovery of complexity theory. {\i0 16}}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s3\sa120\ql\rtlch\afs22\lang255\ltrch\dbch\afs22\langfe255\loch\f3\fs22\lang2057 {\loch\f3\fs22\lang2057\i0\b0 So to understand any real physical system at its critical point, you may as well forget all the real, messy details about that system, and focus instead on the simplest mathematical game belonging to the same universality class 82}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s3\sa120\ql\rtlch\afs22\lang255\ltrch\dbch\afs22\langfe255\loch\f3\fs22\lang2057 {\loch\f3\fs22\lang2057\i0\b0 Things that live in critical states tend to show similar kinds of organisation, and this organisation arises not from specific details of those systems and the elements that make them up, but from the far deeper skeleton of basic geometry and logic behind 
these details. 83}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s3\sa120\ql\rtlch\afs22\lang255\ltrch\dbch\afs22\langfe255\loch\f3\fs22\lang2057 {\loch\f3\fs22\lang2057\i0\b0 [W]hen these games were originally invented, their inventors unconsciously chose the parameters in the games so as to place them precisely at the critical point. 100}
\par }