{\rtf1\ansi\deff3\adeflang1025
{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fprq2\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}{\f1\froman\fprq2\fcharset2 Symbol;}{\f2\fswiss\fprq2\fcharset0 Arial;}{\f3\froman\fprq2\fcharset128 Times New Roman;}{\f4\froman\fprq0\fcharset128 Trebuchet MS;}{\f5\fswiss\fprq0\fcharset128 Helvetica{\*\falt Arial};}{\f6\froman\fprq0\fcharset128 Times New Roman;}{\f7\fnil\fprq2\fcharset128 WenQuanYi Micro Hei;}{\f8\fnil\fprq2\fcharset128 Times New Roman;}{\f9\fnil\fprq2\fcharset128 Trebuchet MS;}{\f10\fnil\fprq0\fcharset128 Trebuchet MS;}{\f11\fnil\fprq0\fcharset128 Lohit Hindi;}{\f12\fnil\fprq0\fcharset128 Times New Roman;}{\f13\fnil\fprq0\fcharset128 DejaVu Sans;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;}
{\stylesheet{\s0\snext0\ql\widctlpar\ltrpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\hich\af8\langfe255\dbch\af12\afs24\kerning1\alang1081\loch\f6\fs24\lang255 Normal;}
{\s15\sbasedon0\snext16\ql\widctlpar\sb240\sa120\keepn\ltrpar\cf0\hich\af7\langfe255\dbch\af13\afs28\loch\f5\fs28\lang255 Heading;}
{\s16\sbasedon0\snext16\ql\widctlpar\sb0\sa232\ltrpar\cf0\hich\af8\langfe255\dbch\af12\afs24\loch\f4\fs24\lang255 Text body;}
{\s17\sbasedon16\snext17\ql\widctlpar\sb0\sa232\ltrpar\cf0\hich\af8\langfe255\dbch\af10\afs24\loch\f4\fs24\lang255 List;}
{\s18\sbasedon0\snext18\ql\widctlpar\sb120\sa120\noline\ltrpar\cf0\i\hich\af8\langfe255\dbch\af11\afs24\ai\loch\f6\fs24\lang255 Caption;}
{\s19\sbasedon0\snext19\ql\widctlpar\noline\ltrpar\cf0\hich\af8\langfe255\dbch\af10\afs24\loch\f4\fs24\lang255 Index;}
{\s20\sbasedon0\snext20\ql\widctlpar\sb120\sa120\ltrpar\cf0\i\hich\af8\langfe255\dbch\af10\afs20\ai\loch\f4\fs20\lang255 caption;}
{\s21\sbasedon0\snext21\ql\widctlpar\keepn\ltrpar\cf0\i\hich\af8\langfe255\dbch\af10\afs22\ai\loch\f4\fs22\lang1033  heading 1;}
{\s22\sbasedon0\snext22\ql\widctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\noline\ltrpar\cf0\hich\af8\langfe255\dbch\af12\afs24\loch\f6\fs24\lang255 Header;}
{\s23\sbasedon0\snext23\ql\widctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\noline\ltrpar\cf0\hich\af8\langfe255\dbch\af12\afs24\loch\f6\fs24\lang255 Footer;}
}{\info{\creatim\yr2007\mo5\dy31\hr6\min56}{\revtim\yr1601\mo1\dy1\hr0\min0}{\printim\yr1601\mo1\dy1\hr0\min0}{\comment LibreOffice}{\vern3500}}\deftab720

{\*\pgdsctbl
{\pgdsc0\pgdscuse195\pgwsxn12240\pghsxn15840\marglsxn1800\margrsxn1800\margtsxn1440\margbsxn1440\pgdscnxt0 Default;}}
\formshade{\*\pgdscno0}\paperh15840\paperw12240\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\sectd\sbknone\sectunlocked1\pgndec\pgwsxn12240\pghsxn15840\marglsxn1800\margrsxn1800\margtsxn1440\margbsxn1440\ftnbj\ftnstart1\ftnrstcont\ftnnar\aenddoc\aftnrstcont\aftnstart1\aftnnrlc
\pgndec\pard\plain \s16\ql\widctlpar\sb0\sa232\ltrpar\cf0\hich\af8\langfe255\dbch\af12\afs24\loch\f4\fs24\lang255\sl360\slmult1\ql\sb0\sa232{\cf1\i0\b0\langfe255\dbch\af12\afs24\alang1025\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs24\lang255
Judith Butler }{\cf1\i\b0\langfe255\dbch\af12\afs24\alang1025\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs24\lang255
Excitable Speech , A Politics Of the Performative}{\cf1\i0\b0\langfe255\dbch\af12\afs24\alang1025\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs24\lang255
 }{\cf1\i0\b0\langfe255\dbch\af12\afs24\alang1025\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs22\lang1033
Routledge 1997 }
\par \pard\plain \s16\ql\widctlpar\sb0\sa232\ltrpar\cf0\hich\af8\langfe255\dbch\af12\afs24\loch\f4\fs24\lang255\sl360\slmult1\ql\sb0\sa232{\cf1\i0\b0\hich\af10\langfe255\dbch\af12\afs24\alang1025\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs24\lang255
Language sustains the body not by bringing it into being or feeding it in a literal way: rather, it is by being interpellated within the terms of language that a certain social existence of the body first becomes possible. To understand this, one must imagine an impossible scene, that of a body that has not yet been given social definition, a body that is, strictly speaking, not accessible to us, that nevertheless becomes accessible on the occasion of an address, a call, an interpellation that does not "discover" this body, but constitutes it fundamentally. 5}
\par \pard\plain \s16\ql\widctlpar\sb0\sa232\ltrpar\cf0\hich\af8\langfe255\dbch\af12\afs24\loch\f4\fs24\lang255\sl360\slmult1\sb0\sa232{\cf1\i0\b0\hich\af10\langfe255\dbch\af12\afs24\alang1025\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs24\lang255
In speaking, the act that the body is performing is never fully understood; the body is the blindspot of speech, that which acts in excess of what is said, but which also acts in and through what is said. That the speech act is a bodily act means that the act is redoubled in the moment of speech: there is what is said and then there is a kind of saying that the bodily 'instrument" of the utterance performs.  11}
\par \pard\plain \s16\ql\widctlpar\sb0\sa232\ltrpar\cf0\hich\af8\langfe255\dbch\af12\afs24\loch\f4\fs24\lang255\sl360\slmult1\sb0\sa232{\cf1\i0\b0\hich\af10\langfe255\dbch\af12\afs24\alang1025\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs24\lang255
It is therefore impossible to regulate fully the potentially injurious effect of language without destroying something fundamental about language and, more specifically, about the subject's constitution in language. 27}
\par \pard\plain \s16\ql\widctlpar\sb0\sa232\ltrpar\cf0\hich\af8\langfe255\dbch\af12\afs24\loch\f4\fs24\lang255\sl360\slmult1\sb0\sa232{\cf1\i0\b0\hich\af10\langfe255\dbch\af12\afs24\alang1025\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs24\lang255
Consider for a moment the more general conditions of naming. First, a name is offered, given, imposed by someone or by some set of someones, and it is attributed to someone else. It requires an intersubjective context, but also a mode of address, for the name emerges as the addressing of a coinage to another,  and in that address, a rendering of that coinage proper. 29}
\par \pard\plain \s16\ql\widctlpar\sb0\sa232\ltrpar\cf0\hich\af8\langfe255\dbch\af12\afs24\loch\f4\fs24\lang255\sl360\slmult1\sb0\sa232{\cf1\i0\b0\hich\af10\langfe255\dbch\af12\afs24\alang1025\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs24\lang255
Consider the efficacy of written or reproduced language in the production of social effects and, in particular, the constitution of subjects. But perhaps most important to consider is that the voice is implicated in a notion of sovereign power, power figured as emanating from a subject, activated in a voice, whose effects appear to the magical effects of that voice. In other words, power is understood on the model of the divine power of naming, where to utter is to create the effect uttered. Human speech rarely mimes that divine effect except in the cases where the speech is backed by state power, that of a judge, the immigration authority, or the police, and even then here does sometimes exist recourse to refute that power. 32}
\par \pard\plain \s16\ql\widctlpar\sb0\sa232\ltrpar\cf0\hich\af8\langfe255\dbch\af12\afs24\loch\f4\fs24\lang255\sl360\slmult1\sb0\sa232{\cf1\i0\b0\hich\af10\langfe255\dbch\af12\afs24\alang1025\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs24\lang255
Power does not arrive in the form of a name; its structures and its institutions are not such that the name seems perfectly suited to whatever power is. A name tends to fix, to freeze, to delimit, to render substantial. Indeed, it appears to recall a metaphysics of substance, of discrete and singular kinds of beings; a name is not the same as an undifferentiated temporal process or the complex convergence of relations that go under the rubric of "a situation\u8221\'1d. 35}
\par \pard\plain \s16\ql\widctlpar\sb0\sa232\ltrpar\cf0\hich\af8\langfe255\dbch\af12\afs24\loch\f4\fs24\lang255\sl360\slmult1\sb0\sa232{\cf1\i0\b0\hich\af10\langfe255\dbch\af12\afs24\alang1025\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs24\lang255
After all, to be named by another is traumatic: it is an act that precedes my will, an act that brings me into a linguistic world in which I might then begin to exercise agency at all. A founding subordination, and yet the scene of agency, is repeated in the ongoing interpellations of social life. This is what I have been called. Because I have been called something, I have been entered into linguistic life, refer to myself through the language given by the Other, but perhaps, never quite in the same terms that my language mimes. 38}
\par \pard\plain \s16\ql\widctlpar\sb0\sa232\ltrpar\cf0\hich\af8\langfe255\dbch\af12\afs24\loch\f4\fs24\lang255\sl360\slmult1\sb0\sa232{\cf1\i0\b0\hich\af10\langfe255\dbch\af12\afs24\alang1025\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs24\lang255
The terms by which we are hailed are rarely the ones we choose (and even when we try to impose protocols on how we are to be named, they usually fail); but these terms we never really choose are the occasion for something we might still call agency, the repetition of an originary subordination for another purpose, one whose future is partially open. 38}
\par \pard\plain \s16\ql\widctlpar\sb0\sa232\ltrpar\cf0\hich\af8\langfe255\dbch\af12\afs24\loch\f4\fs24\lang255\sl360\slmult1\sb0\sa232{\cf1\i0\b0\hich\af10\langfe255\dbch\af12\afs24\alang1025\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs24\lang255
Does a subject appear as the author of its discursive effects to the extent that the citational practice by which he/she is conditioned and mobilized remains unmarked? Indeed, could it be that the production of the subject as originator of his/her effects is precisely a consequence of this dissimuIated citationality?  51}
\par \pard\plain \s16\ql\widctlpar\sb0\sa232\ltrpar\cf0\hich\af8\langfe255\dbch\af12\afs24\loch\f4\fs24\lang255\sl360\slmult1\sb0\sa232{\cf1\i0\b0\hich\af10\langfe255\dbch\af12\afs24\alang1025\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs24\lang255
If a performative provisionally succeeds (and I will suggest that \u8220\'1csuccess" is always and only provisional), then it is not because an intention successfully governs the action of speech, but only because that action echoes prior actions, and }{\cf1\i\b0\hich\af10\langfe255\dbch\af12\afs24\alang1025\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs24\lang255
accumulates the force of authority through the repetition or citation of a prior and authoritative set of practices}{\cf1\i0\b0\hich\af10\langfe255\dbch\af12\afs24\alang1025\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs24\lang255
. It is not simply that the speech act takes place within a practice, but that the act is itself a ritualized practice. What this means, then, is that a performative "works" to the extent that it }{\cf1\i\b0\hich\af10\langfe255\dbch\af12\afs24\alang1025\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs24\lang255
draws on and covers over}{\cf1\i0\b0\hich\af10\langfe255\dbch\af12\afs24\alang1025\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs24\lang255
 the constitutive conventions by which it is mobilized. 51}
\par \pard\plain \s16\ql\widctlpar\sb0\sa232\ltrpar\cf0\hich\af8\langfe255\dbch\af12\afs24\loch\f4\fs24\lang255\sl360\slmult1\sb0\sa232{\cf1\i0\b0\hich\af10\langfe255\dbch\af12\afs24\alang1025\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs24\lang255
The question now emerges: how is it that the norms that govern speech come to inhabit the body? Moreover, how do the norms that produce and regulate the subject of speech also seek to inhabit and craft the embodied life of the subject? 142}
\par \pard\plain \s16\ql\widctlpar\sb0\sa232\ltrpar\cf0\hich\af8\langfe255\dbch\af12\afs24\loch\f4\fs24\lang255\sl360\slmult1\sb0\sa232{\cf1\i0\b0\hich\af10\langfe255\dbch\af12\afs24\alang1025\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs24\lang255
That speech is not the same as writing seems clear, not because the body is present in speech in a way that it is not in writing, but because the oblique relation of the body to speech is itself performed by the utterance, deflected yet carried by the performance itself. To argue that the body is equally absent in speech and writing is true only to the extent that neither speech nor writing makes the body immediately present. But the ways in which the body obliquely appears in speech is, of necessity, different from the way it appears in writing. Although both are bodily acts, it is the mark of the body, as it were, that is read in the written text. Whose body it is can remain permanently unclear. 152}
\par \pard\plain \s16\ql\widctlpar\sb0\sa232\ltrpar\cf0\hich\af8\langfe255\dbch\af12\afs24\loch\f4\fs24\lang255\sl360\slmult1\sb0\sa232{\cf1\i0\b0\hich\af10\langfe255\dbch\af12\afs24\alang1025\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs24\lang255
The practical sense is carried by the body, where the body is not a mere positive datum, but the repository or the site of an incorporated history.152}
\par \pard\plain \s16\ql\widctlpar\sb0\sa232\ltrpar\cf0\hich\af8\langfe255\dbch\af12\afs24\loch\f4\fs24\lang255\sl360\slmult1\sb0\sa232{\cf1\i0\b0\hich\af10\langfe255\dbch\af12\afs24\alang1025\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs24\lang255
The body is not only the site of such a history but also the instrument through which the belief in contemporary obviousness is reconstituted. 153}
\par \pard\plain \s16\ql\widctlpar\sb0\sa232\ltrpar\cf0\hich\af8\langfe255\dbch\af12\afs24\loch\f4\fs24\lang255\sl360\slmult1\sb0\sa232{\cf1\i0\b0\hich\af10\langfe255\dbch\af12\afs24\alang1025\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs24\lang255
The body however, is not simply the sedimentation of speech acts by which it has been constituted. If that constitution fails, a resistance meets interpellation at the moment it exerts its demand; then something exceeds the interpellation, and this excess is lived as the outside of intelligibility. This becomes clear in the way the body rhetorically exceeds the speech act it also performs. 155}
\par \pard\plain \s16\ql\widctlpar\sb0\sa232\ltrpar\cf0\hich\af8\langfe255\dbch\af12\afs24\loch\f4\fs24\lang255\sl360\slmult1\sb0\sa232{\cf1\i0\b0\hich\af10\langfe255\dbch\af12\afs24\alang1025\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs24\lang255
The performative  needs to be rethought not only as an act that an official language-user wields in order to implement already authorized effects, but precisely as social ritual, as one of the very 'modalities of practices [that] are powerful and hard to resist precisely because they are silent and insidious, insistent and insinuatingly'  159}
\par \pard\plain \s16\ql\widctlpar\sb0\sa232\ltrpar\cf0\hich\af8\langfe255\dbch\af12\afs24\loch\f4\fs24\lang255\sl360\slmult1\sb0\sa232{\cf1\i0\b0\hich\af10\langfe255\dbch\af12\afs24\alang1025\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs24\lang255
Performatives do not merely reflect prior social conditions, but produce a set of social effects, and though they are not always the effects of \u8220\'1cofficial" discourse, they nevertheless work their social power not only to regulate bodies, but to form them as well. Indeed, the effects of performative discourse exceed and confound the authorizing contexts from which they emerge. Performatives cannot always be retethered to their moment of utterance, but they carry the mnemic trace of the body in the force that they exercise. 159}
\par \pard\plain \s16\ql\widctlpar\sb0\sa232\ltrpar\cf0\hich\af8\langfe255\dbch\af12\afs24\loch\f4\fs24\lang255\sl360\slmult1\sb0\sa232{\cf1\i0\b0\hich\af10\langfe255\dbch\af12\afs24\alang1025\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs24\lang255
The appropriation of such norms to oppose their historically sedimented effect constitutes the insurrectionary moment of that history, the moment that founds a future through a break with that past. 159}
\par \pard\plain \s16\ql\widctlpar\sb0\sa232\ltrpar\cf0\hich\af8\langfe255\dbch\af12\afs24\loch\f4\fs24\lang255\sl360\slmult1\sb0\sa232{\cf1\i0\b0\hich\af10\langfe255\dbch\af12\afs24\alang1025\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs24\lang255
If  there can be a modernity without foundationalisrn (and perhaps this is what is meant by the postmodern), then it maybe will be one in which the key terms of its operation are not fully secured in advance, one that assumes a futural force for politics that cannot be fully anticipated: and this will be a politics of both hope and anxiety, what Foucault termed "a politics of discomfort\u8221\'1d 161 }
\par \pard\plain \s16\ql\widctlpar\sb0\sa232\ltrpar\cf0\hich\af8\langfe255\dbch\af12\afs24\loch\f4\fs24\lang255\sl360\slmult1\sb0\sa232\rtlch \ltrch\loch\lang255

\par \pard\plain \s16\ql\widctlpar\sb0\sa232\ltrpar\cf0\hich\af8\langfe255\dbch\af12\afs24\loch\f4\fs24\lang255\sl360\slmult1\sb0\sa232\rtlch \ltrch\loch

\par }