{\rtf1\ansi\deff1\adeflang1025
{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fprq2\fcharset0 Times New Roman{\*\falt Thorndale};}{\f1\froman\fprq2\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fnil\fprq0\fcharset0 Trebuchet MS;}{\f3\froman\fprq2\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fswiss\fprq2\fcharset0 Trebuchet MS;}{\f5\fnil\fprq2\fcharset0 HG Mincho Light J;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;}
{\stylesheet{\s1\cf0\rtlch\af1\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af5\loch\lang2057\snext1 Default;}
{\s2\sa120\cf0\rtlch\af1\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af5\loch\lang2057\sbasedon1\snext2 Text body;}
{\s3\sa120\cf0\rtlch\af1\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af5\loch\f2\lang2057\sbasedon2\snext3 List;}
{\s4\sb120\sa120\cf0\rtlch\af1\afs20\lang255\ai\ltrch\dbch\af5\afs20\ai\loch\f2\fs20\lang2057\i\sbasedon1\snext4 Caption;}
{\s5\cf0\rtlch\af1\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af5\loch\f2\lang2057\sbasedon1\snext5 Index;}
}
{\info{\comment StarWriter}{\vern6410}}\deftab1250
{\*\pgdsctbl
{\pgdsc0\pgdscuse195\pgwsxn11905\pghsxn16837\marglsxn1134\margrsxn1134\margtsxn1134\margbsxn1134\pgdscnxt0 Default;}}
\paperh16837\paperw11905\margl1134\margr1134\margt1134\margb1134\sectd\sbknone\pgwsxn11905\pghsxn16837\marglsxn1134\margrsxn1134\margtsxn1134\margbsxn1134\ftnbj\ftnstart1\ftnrstcont\ftnnar\aenddoc\aftnrstcont\aftnstart1\aftnnrlc
\pard\plain \s1\cf0\rtlch\af1\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af5\loch\lang2057\ltrch\loch\f4 
\par 
\par {\ltrch\loch\f4 Clark, Andy {\i Being There. Putting Brain, Body, and World Together Again}, (MIT Press, Cambridge MA & London, 1997)}
\par 
\par {\ltrch\loch\f4 If you had to build an intelligent agent, where would you begin? What strikes you as the something special that separates the unthinking world of rocks, waterfalls, and volcanos from the realms of responsive intelligence? (Clark, 1997, xi)}
\par 
\par {\ltrch\loch\f4 Such extreme opposition between matter and mind has long since been abandoned. In its stead we find a loose coalition of sciences of the mind whose common goal is to understand how thought is materially possible. (Clark, 1997, xi)}
\par 
\par {\ltrch\loch\f4 When evolution threw up complex brains, mobile bodies and nervous systems, it opened the door (by purely physical means) to whole new ways of living and adapting-ways that place us on one side of a natural divide, leaving volcanos, waterfalls, and the rest
 of cognitively inert creation on the other.(Clark, 1997, xii)}
\par 
\par {\ltrch\loch\f4 Might it not be more fruitful to think of brains as controllers for embodied activity? That small shift in perspective has large implications for how we construct a science of the mind. (Clark, 1997, xii)}
\par 
\par {\ltrch\loch\f4 Minds make motions, and they must make them fast-before the predator catches you, or before the prey sets away from you. Minds are not disembodied logical reasoning devices. (Clark, 1997, 1)}
\par 
\par {\ltrch\loch\f4 But it is now increasingly clear that the alternative to the \ldblquote disembodied explicit data manipulation\rdblquote  vision of AI is not to retreat from hard science; it is to pursue some harder science. It is to put intelligence where it belongs: in the coupling of orga
nisms and world that is at the root of daily, fluent action.(Clark, 1997, 4) []1. }
\par 
\par {\ltrch\loch\f4 The image of mind as controller forces us to take seriously the issues of time, world, and body. Controllers must generate appropriate actions, rapidly, on the basis of an ongoing interaction between the body and its changing environment. (Clark, 1997, 7)}
\par 
\par {\ltrch\loch\f4 At root, our minds too are organs for the rapidly initiating the next move in real-world situations. They are organs exquisitely geared to the production of actions, laid out in local space and real time.  (Clark, 1997, 8).}
\par 
\par {\ltrch\loch\f4 The attempt to build robust, mobile robots leads, surprisingly quickly, to a radical rethinking of many of our old and comfortable ideas about the nature of adaptive intelligence.  (Clark, 1997, 11)}
\par 
\par {\ltrch\loch\f4 The New Robotics revolution rejects a fundamental part of the classical image of mind. It rejects the image of a central planner that is privy to all the information available anywhere in the system and dedicated to the discovery of possible behavioural se
quences that will satisfy particular goals.  (Clark, 1997, 21).}
\par 
\par {\ltrch\loch\f4 The idea is that we reduce the information-processing load by sensitizing the system to particular aspects of the world-aspects that have special significance because of the environmental niche the system inhabits.  (Clark, 1997, 24)}
\par 
\par {\ltrch\loch\f4 How can we even formulate hypotheses concerning the possible structure and operation of such unintuitive and fragmentary minds? Brooks and others rely on developing a new set of intuitions ... As we seek to tackle increasingly complex cases, however, it is
 doubtful that this \ldblquote handcrafting\rdblquote  approach can succeed.  (Clark, 1997, 32)}
\par 
\par {\ltrch\loch\f4 The puzzle is how to maintain coherent behaviour patterns as the systems grow more and more complex and are required to exhibit a wider and wider range of behaviours.  ... [W]e shall unearth a surprising number of tricks and strategies that may induce glob
al coherence. Most of these strategies involve the use of some type of external structure or \ldblquote scaffolding\rdblquote  to mold and orchestrate behaviour.  (Clark, 1997, 32).}
\par 
\par {\ltrch\loch\f4 A better image of child cognition (indeed, of all cognition) depicts perception, action and thought as bound together in a variety of complex and interpenetrating ways.  (Clark, 1997, 36).}
\par 
\par {\ltrch\loch\f4 Complex phenomena exhibit a great deal of self-organization.  (Clark, 1997, 40)}
\par 
\par {\ltrch\loch\f4 Multif-factor, decentralized approaches, in contrast, often yield such robust, contextual adaptation as a cost-free side effect. This is becasue such systems ... create actions from an \ldblquote equal partners\rdblquote  approach in which the local environment palces a large
 role in selecting behaviours.  (Clark, 1997, 43)}
\par 
\par {\ltrch\loch\f4 Soft assembly out of multiple, largely independent components yields a characteristic mixture of roustness and variability. The solutions that emerge are tailored to the idiosyncrasies of context, yet they satisfy some general goal.  (Clark, 1997, 44).}
\par 
\par {\ltrch\loch\f4 [W]e may often solve problems by \ldblquote piggy-backing\rquote  on reliable environmental properties. This exploitation of external structure is what I mean by the term scaffolding.  (Clark, 1997, 45)}
\par 
\par {\ltrch\loch\f4 The idea here is that the brain should not be seen as primarily a locus of inner descriptions of external states of affair; rather, it should be seen as a locus of inner structures that act as operators upon the world via their role in determining actions.
  (Clark, 1997, 47)}
\par 
\par {\ltrch\loch\f4 It is this feature-the ability of the map itself to act as the controller-that is of greatest interest to us. ... The map is its own user, and its knowledge is both descriptive (of locations) and prescriptive (it represents the relationship between two loc
ations as the sequence of movements that would carry the robot from one landmark to the other.  (Clark, 1997, 49)}
\par 
\par {\ltrch\loch\f4 [P]erception is itself tangled up with specific possibilities of action-so tangled up, in fact, that the job of central cognition often ceases to exist. (Clark, 1997, 51)}
\par 
\par {\ltrch\loch\f4 Mind is a leaky organ, forever escaping its \ldblquote natural\rdblquote  confines and mingling shamelessly with body and with world. What kind of brain needs such external support, and how should we characterize its environmental interactions?  (Clark, 1997, 54)}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f4 [O]ur behavious is often sculpted and sequenced by a special class of complex external structures: the linguistic and cultural artifacts that structure modern life, including maps, texts, and written plans. (Clark, 1997, 54)}
\par 
\par {\ltrch\loch\f4 The suspicion, however, is that cognitive science can no longer afford simplifications that take the real world and the acting organism out of the loop-such simplifications may obscure the solutions to ecologically realistic problems that characterize acti
ve embodied agents such as human beings. (Clark, 1997, 59)}
\par 
\par {\ltrch\loch\f4 Connectionist minds are ideal candidates for extensive external scaffolding.  ... The combination of basic pattern-completing abilities and complex, well-structured environments may thus enable us to haul ourselves up by our own computational bootstraps. (
Clark, 1997, 60-61).}
\par 
\par {\ltrch\loch\f4 We manage our physical and spatial surroundings in ways that fundamentally alter the information-processing tasks our brains confront. ...}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f4 What makes this cooperative approach worthwhile is the difference in nature between  the kinds of computations which come naturally to the free-standing brain and the ones which can be performed by parasitizing environmental resources. But such parasitizat
ion, as we shall see, casts doubt on the traditional boundaries between mind and world themselves. (Clark, 1997, 63)}
\par 
\par {\ltrch\loch\f4 Our cleverness shows itself in our ability to actively structure and operate upon our environment so as to simplify our problem-solving tasks. (Clark, 1997, 67)}
\par 
\par {\ltrch\loch\f4 The kind of solutions that do work often merge the processes of reasoning and acting in unexpected ways, and cut back and forth across the traditional boundaries of mind, body and environment. (Clark, 1997, 68)}
\par 
\par {\ltrch\loch\f4 But the flow of thoughts and the adaptive success of reason are now seen to depend on repeated and crucial interactions with external resources. The role  of such interactions ... is clearly computational and informational: it is to transform inputs, to si
mplify search, to aid recognition, to prompt associative recall, to offload memory, and so on. In a sense, then, human reasoners are truly distributed cognitive engines: we call on external resources to perform specific computational tasks, much as a netwo
rked computer may call on other networked computers to perform specific jobs. (Clark, 1997, 68)}
\par 
\par {\ltrch\loch\f4 Chapter 4}
\par 
\par {\ltrch\loch\f4 Collectives of human agents, too, exhibit forms of emergent adaptive behaviour. The biological brain, which parasitizes the external work ... so as to augment its problem-solving capacities, does not draw the line at inorganic extensions. Instead, the coll
ective properties of groups of individual agents determine crucial aspects of our adaptive success. (Clark, 1997, 73)}
\par 
\par {\ltrch\loch\f4 The need to account for the origins of collective success does not, it seems, force us back to the image of a central planning agency that knows the shape of the overall problem space. Instead, we may sometimes structure our own problem-solving environment
 as a kind of by-product of our basic problem-solving activity. (Clark, 1997, 79)}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f4 [W]e may now glimpse the barest outlines of an alternative methodology-a methodology for studying embodied, active cognition. ...}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f4 real-world, real-time focus ...}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f4 awareness of decentralized solutions}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f4 an extended version of cognition and computation (Clark, 1997, 81)}
\par 
\par {\ltrch\loch\f4 [T]he study of embodied active cognition clearly presents some major conceptual and methodological challenges. These include ...}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f4 the problem of tractability ...}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f4 the problem of advanced cognition ...}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f4 the problem of identity ....}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f4 ...}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f4 The key to integrating the facts about advanced cognition with the vision of embodied active cognition lies, I shall suggest, in better understanding the roles of two very special external props or scaffold: language and culture. (Clark, 1997, 82)}
\par 
\par {\ltrch\loch\f4 To thus take body and world seriously is to invite an emergentist perspective on many key phenomena - to see adaptive success as inhering as much in complex interactions among body, world, and brain as in the inner processes bounded by skin and skull. (Cla
rk, 1997, 84)}
\par 
\par {\ltrch\loch\f4 Simulated evolution (like neural network learning) promises to help reduce the role of our rationalistic prejudices and predispositions in the search for efficient solutions. (Clark, 1997, 87)}
\par 
\par {\ltrch\loch\f4 \ldblquote As complexity increases, history plays the greater part.\rdblquote  (Clark, 1997, 89)}
\par 
\par {\ltrch\loch\f4 Simulation-based work is thus in danger of missing cheap solutions to important problems by failing to recognize the stabilizing role of gross physical properties such as friction and electrical and mechanical loss. (Clark, 1997, 96)}
\par 
\par {\ltrch\loch\f4 The process of natural design, it seems, will routinely outrun the imaginings of human theorists. In particular, biological evolution cares nothing for our neat demarcation between the merely physical and the computational or informational. (Clark, 1997, 9
7)}
\par 
\par {\ltrch\loch\f4 A large and currently unresolved question therefore looms: how are we to study and understand (not just replicate) the adaptive success of biological creatures-creatures whose design principles do not respect the intuitive boundaries between cognition, bod
y and world? (Clark, 1997, 98)}
\par 
\par {\ltrch\loch\f4 I shall argue that emergent phenomena do demand some new modes of explanation and study, but that these new modes are best seen as completmentary to (not in competition with) more familiar analytic approaches. Certainly we will see an increasing sensitivit
y to what might be termed the ecological determination of the roles of various inner states and processes. (Clark, 1997, 103)}
\par 
\par {\ltrch\loch\f4 One basic sense of the elusive terms \ldblquote emergence\rdblquote  is thus to hand. There is emergence whenever interesting, non-centrally-controlled behaviour ensues as a result of the interactions of multiple simple components within a system.(Clark, 1997, 108)}
\par 
\par {\ltrch\loch\f4 We thus confront a second sense of emergence-one that turns on the idea of functionally valuable side effects brought about by the interaction of heterogeneous components, and which foregrounds the notion of interactions between  behaviour systems and loca
l environmental structures. (Clark, 1997, 109)}
\par 
\par {\ltrch\loch\f4 A phenomenon is emergent if it is best understood by attention to the changing values of a collective variable. (Clark, 1997, 112)}
\par 
\par {\ltrch\loch\f4 Emergence, thus defined, is linked to the notion of what variables figure in a good  explanation of the behaviour of a system.  (Clark, 1997, 113)}
\par 
\par {\ltrch\loch\f4 [T]o really understand a complex phenomenon it is at least necessary that we understand at least something of how it is rooted in the more basic properties of its biologically or physically proper parts. What this ultimately requires, I suggest, is continu
ally probing beyond the level of collective variables and the like so as to understand the deeper roots of the collective dynamics themselves.  (Clark, 1997, 121)}
\par 
\par {\ltrch\loch\f4 A more realistic picture, I suggest, must countenace three equally important and interlocking types of explanation and description:}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f4 (1)An account of the gross behaviours of the well-functioning organism in the environment-an account that may invoke collective variables whose componential roots span brain, body, and world.}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f4 (2)An account that identifies the various components whose collective properties are targeted by the explanations proper to (1)...}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f4 (3)An account of the various information-processing roles played by the components (both internal and external) identified in (2)-an account that may well assiged specific computational roles and representational capacities to distinct neural subsystems.  
(Clark, 1997,126)}
\par 
\par {\ltrch\loch\f4 A full account of embodied, embedded, and emergence-laden cognition must, it seem, do justice to several kinds of data.  (Clark, 1997, 127)}
\par }