{\rtf1\ansi\deff1\adeflang1025
{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fprq2\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fnil\fprq0\fcharset0 Trebuchet MS;}{\f2\fnil\fprq0\fcharset0 Trebuchet MS;}{\f3\fnil\fprq2\fcharset0 Tahoma;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;}
{\stylesheet{\s1\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\aspalpha\rtlch\af3\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af3\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\snext1 Default;}
{\s2\sa120\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\afs24\langfe255\loch\fs24\lang2057\sbasedon1\snext2 Text body;}
{\s3\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\fs24\lang2057\sbasedon2\snext3 List;}
{\s4\sb120\sa120\rtlch\afs20\lang255\ai\ltrch\dbch\afs20\langfe255\ai\loch\f1\fs20\lang2057\i\sbasedon1\snext4 Caption;}
{\s5\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\sbasedon1\snext5 Index;}
}
{\info{\comment StarWriter}{\vern6450}}\deftab709
{\*\pgdsctbl
{\pgdsc0\pgdscuse195\pgwsxn11905\pghsxn16837\marglsxn1134\margrsxn1134\margtsxn1134\margbsxn1134\pgdscnxt0 Default;}}
{\*\pgdscno0}\paperh16837\paperw11905\margl1134\margr1134\margt1134\margb1134\sectd\sbknone\pgwsxn11905\pghsxn16837\marglsxn1134\margrsxn1134\margtsxn1134\margbsxn1134\ftnbj\ftnstart1\ftnrstcont\ftnnar\aenddoc\aftnrstcont\aftnstart1\aftnnrlc
\pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\sa120\ql\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\afs24\langfe255\loch\fs24\lang2057 {\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 Clark, Andy, {\i Natural-Born Cyborgs. Minds, Technologies and the Future of Human Intelligence, }Oxford University Press, 2003}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\sa120\ql\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\afs24\langfe255\loch\fs24\lang2057 {\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 My claim, by contrast, is that various kinds of deep human-machine symbiosis really do expand and alter the shape of the psychological processes that make us who we are. ... The moral, for now, is simply that this process of fitting, tailoring, and factori
ng in leads to the creation of extended computational and mental organizations: reasoning and thinking systems distributed across brain, body, and world. (32-33)}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\sa120\ql\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\afs24\langfe255\loch\fs24\lang2057 {\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 My own suspicious eroticization of retro-technology aside, the real point of this little reminiscence was just to being to cement the contrast between two types of technology: \ldblquote transparent technologies\rdblquote  and what might be contrariwise be dubbed \ldblquote opaque tech
nologies.\rdblquote  (37)}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\sa120\ql\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\afs24\langfe255\loch\fs24\lang2057 {\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 It is then an empirical question whether the greatest usable bandwidth and potential lies with full implant technologies or with well-designed nonpenetrative modes of personal augmentation. (24)}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\sa120\ql\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\afs24\langfe255\loch\fs24\lang2057 {\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 To recap, human brains (and indeed those of many other animals) seem to support highly negotiable body-images. As a result, our brains can quite readily project feeling and sensation beyond the biological shell. (62)}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\sa120\ql\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\afs24\langfe255\loch\fs24\lang2057 {\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 Our words and inscriptions are the floating roots that actively capture the cognitive debris from which we build new thoughts and ideas. (82)}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\sa120\ql\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\afs24\langfe255\loch\fs24\lang2057 {\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 The learning device {\i itself} changes as a result of organism-environment interactions; learning does just alter the knowledge base for a fixed computational engine, it alters the internal computational architecture itself. (84)}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\sa120\ql\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\afs24\langfe255\loch\fs24\lang2057 {\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 A more realistic vision depicts us humans as, by nature, products of a complex and heterogeneous developmental matrix in which culture, technology and biology are pretty well inextricably mixed. It is a mistake to posit a biologically fixed \ldblquote human nature\rdblquote  
with a simple wrap-around of tools and culture; the tools and culture are indeed as much determiners of our nature as products of it. (86)}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\sa120\ql\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\afs24\langfe255\loch\fs24\lang2057 {\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 Perhaps all that can be said, with real certainty, is that the ideas and possibilities that Stelarc is exploring are not just theater. (119)}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\sa120\ql\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\afs24\langfe255\loch\fs24\lang2057 {\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 The narrative self is a self built out of our own and others' conceptions of our projects, capacities, possibilities and potentials. (132)}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\sa120\ql\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\afs24\langfe255\loch\fs24\lang2057 {\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 What we really need to reject, I suggest, is the seductive idea that all these various neural and nonneural tools need a kind of privileged user. Instead, it is just tools all the way down. (136)}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\sa120\ql\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\afs24\langfe255\loch\fs24\lang2057 {\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 The notion of a real, central, yet wafer-thin self is a profound mistake. It is a mistake that blinds us to our real nature and leads us to radically undervalue and misconceive the roles of context, culture, environment, and technology in the {\i constitution} 
of individual human persons. (139)}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\sa120\ql\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\afs24\langfe255\loch\fs24\lang2057 {\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 What matters is not that we be micromanaging every detail of every operation, but that the surrounding systems provide usable, robust support for the kinds of life and projects we value. This is {\i precisely}{\i0  the goal of human-centered technologies anyway. The
 trick, then, is to acclimatize ourselves to a much more }{\i biological}{\i0  relationship with our technologies. (176)}}
\par }