{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f1\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0604020202020204}Arial;}
{\f33\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f34\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f36\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f37\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}
{\f38\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\f39\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\f40\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\f41\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Arial CE;}{\f42\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Arial Cyr;}
{\f44\fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Arial Greek;}{\f45\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Arial Tur;}{\f46\fswiss\fcharset177\fprq2 Arial (Hebrew);}{\f47\fswiss\fcharset178\fprq2 Arial (Arabic);}{\f48\fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Arial Baltic;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;
\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f1\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext15 
Body Text;}}{\info{\title Knowledge and infrastructure in International information management Problems of classification and codings}{\author adrian  mackenzie}{\operator adrian  mackenzie}{\creatim\yr2001\mo7\dy25\hr10\min5}
{\revtim\yr2001\mo8\dy28\hr13\min49}{\version4}{\edmins1}{\nofpages1}{\nofwords176}{\nofchars1007}{\nofcharsws0}{\vern8247}}\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\horzdoc\dghspace120\dgvspace120
\dghorigin1701\dgvorigin1984\dghshow0\dgvshow3\jcompress\viewkind4\viewscale95\nolnhtadjtbl \fet0\sectd \linex0\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}
{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain 
\s15\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f1\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Knowledge and infrastructure in International information management Problems of classification and codings
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\f1\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\langnp1033 Geoffrey Bowker and Susan Leigh Star
\par 
\par Information acumen The understanding and use of knowledge in modern business
\par Edited by Lisa Bud-Frierman 1994 Routledge
\par 
\par List-making has frequently been seen as one of the foundational activities of advanced human society. 188
\par 
\par In the face of incompatible information or data structures among users or among those specifying the system, attempts to create unitary knowledge categories are futile. Rather, parallel or multiple-representational forms are required. 207
\par 
\par Imposed standards will produce workarounds. Because imposed standards cannot account for every local
 contingency, users will tailor standardized forms, information systems, schedules, etc. to fit their needs. A good summary of this appeared recently on a feminist button proclaiming, \lquote 
One size does NOT fit all!' Gasser (1986) identified three major classes of such informal responses to imposed standards: fitting, augmenting, and working around. In terms of designing tools for distributed, organizational decision- and policymaking, a
 detailed catalogue and analysis of such responses could become part of the designers' toolkit; incorporated in the system, could point out styles of workarounds at the level of coding. 208
\par 
\par }}