{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f44\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0603020202020204}Trebuchet MS;}
{\f72\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f73\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f75\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f76\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}
{\f77\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\f78\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\f79\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\f424\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Trebuchet MS CE;}
{\f428\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Trebuchet MS Tur;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;
\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\s1\ql \li0\ri0\sl360\slmult1\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\b\f44\fs22\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 1;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}}{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid429169894\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0
\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid67698703\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 \chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1\fbias0 \fi-360\li720\jclisttab\tx720 }{\listlevel\levelnfc4\levelnfcn4\leveljc0\leveljcn0
\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid67698713\'02\'01.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 \chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1 \fi-360\li1440\jclisttab\tx1440 }{\listlevel\levelnfc2\levelnfcn2\leveljc2\leveljcn2
\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid67698715\'02\'02.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 \chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1 \fi-180\li2160\jclisttab\tx2160 }{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0
\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid67698703\'02\'03.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 \chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1 \fi-360\li2880\jclisttab\tx2880 }{\listlevel\levelnfc4\levelnfcn4\leveljc0\leveljcn0
\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid67698713\'02\'04.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 \chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1 \fi-360\li3600\jclisttab\tx3600 }{\listlevel\levelnfc2\levelnfcn2\leveljc2\leveljcn2
\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid67698715\'02\'05.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 \chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1 \fi-180\li4320\jclisttab\tx4320 }{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0
\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid67698703\'02\'06.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 \chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1 \fi-360\li5040\jclisttab\tx5040 }{\listlevel\levelnfc4\levelnfcn4\leveljc0\leveljcn0
\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid67698713\'02\'07.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 \chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1 \fi-360\li5760\jclisttab\tx5760 }{\listlevel\levelnfc2\levelnfcn2\leveljc2\leveljcn2
\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid67698715\'02\'08.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\chbrdr\brdrnone\brdrcf1 \chshdng0\chcfpat1\chcbpat1 \fi-180\li6480\jclisttab\tx6480 }{\listname ;}\listid342896750}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid342896750\listoverridecount0\ls1}}{\info{\title Meetings in Compendium's perspective:}{\author adrian  mackenzie}{\operator adrian  mackenzie}{\creatim\yr2001\mo6\dy27\hr14\min23}
{\revtim\yr2001\mo7\dy3\hr10\min35}{\version3}{\edmins1036}{\nofpages2}{\nofwords448}{\nofchars2556}{\nofcharsws0}{\vern8247}}\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\horzdoc\dghspace120\dgvspace120
\dghorigin1701\dgvorigin1984\dghshow0\dgvshow3\jcompress\viewkind4\viewscale100\nolnhtadjtbl \fet0\sectd \linex0\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}
{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain 
\s1\ql \li0\ri0\sl360\slmult1\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\f44\fs22\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Compendium: Making Meetings into Knowledge Events
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\sl360\slmult1\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\f44\fs22\lang1033\langfe1033\langnp1033 
Albert Selvin, Simon Buckingham Shum, Maarten Sierhuis, Jeff Conklin, Beatrix Zimmermann, Charles Palus, Wilfred Draths, David Horths, John Domingue, Enrico Motta Ek Gangmin Li
\par Knowledge Technologies 2001 ~ March 4-7, 2001, Austin TX ~ [wwn fwww.KnowledgeTechnoloqies. net I
\par 
\par 
\par Meetings in Compendium's perspective:
\par {\listtext\pard\plain\f44\fs22 \hich\af44\dbch\af0\loch\f44 1.\tab}}\pard \ql \fi-360\li720\ri0\sl360\slmult1\nowidctlpar\jclisttab\tx720\faauto\ls1\rin0\lin720\itap0 {\f44\fs22\lang1033\langfe1033\langnp1033 
are untapped knowledge-intensive events: often they are unfocused, but they can be improved with facilitated tools that help participants express and visualize views in a shared, common display; 
\par {\listtext\pard\plain\f44\fs22 \hich\af44\dbch\af0\loch\f44 2.\tab}2. can be more tightly woven into the fabric of works they are preceded and followed by much other communication and the generation of associated artifacts.
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\sl360\slmult1\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f44\fs22\lang1033\langfe1033\langnp1033 We describe how these 'conversationaI maps' can be
 integrated with pre/postmeeting activities and documents. Compendium's maps are designed to support the granular representation of concepts (as hypertext database objects) so that they can be spatially organized, recombined and reused in multiple context
s.2
\par Conversely, we have placed great emphasis on generating alternate documents directly from maps, since one of the most common purposes of meetings is to advance a pro ject deliverable of some sort, typically, an organizational document of an established 
genre, using established notations and stylistic conventions. We automatically transform visual 2
\par We describe how synchronous, face-to-face interaction can be integrated technically and socially with asynchronous, distributed interaction, often around docu
ments that need to be critiquedf and annotated both informally (comments and threaded discussions) and formally (using organizational knowledge models, or ontologies). 3
\par However, we have also developed ways to generate the maps from other applications, to 
support the collective, conceptual analysis (e.g. chunking, clustering, linking, systematic reuse) that granular, hypertextual objects facilitate. 5 we need automatic morphing from visual maps to myriad file formats and notations for direct importing into
 other applications. If 7
\par In other words, answering questions in a natural language is easier than having to understand what the arrows and boxes mean in most other languages. 8
\par However, in keeping with the otion that the wider organization may prefer more conventional documents and user interfaces, we can generate a structured Web document discussion site from a map, as 9
\par It is useful to take the "document enrichment" a step further down the formalization route in certain domains. Having generated a documen
t discussion environment from a map, this can be linked with ontology tools for knowledge modelling and semantic search. 11
\par Compendium occupies a particular region in the design space of knowledge management technologies, focusing on augmenting team intera
ction. The centrality of hypertextual in-situ mapping places particular emphasis on being able to capture not only structured, well understood material, but also the unexpected and informal material that may otherwise never be caught by more rigid notatio
ns or tools. 12
\par 
\par 
\par }}