CSCW - A challenge to certain (G)DSS perspectives on the role of decisions, information, and technology in

To what extent are groups as traditionally conceptualised, relevant to modern business functioning. Can we reconcile the results of studies done on group process in the lab with what seems to happen within organizations? Might we do better if we understand how decision making is actually occurring in organizations, in a distributed fashion, rather than in some centralised group fashion. Detailed, on the ground, studies would appear to be called for here. Page 15 of 19 

What is being modelled? Who constructs the model, who owns it, who can change it etc.? How do people relate to these models, work with them, in them? What kind of language do we use to describe them, manipulate them, etc.? What role do models play in the support systems we generate? Do we model people in our systems, and if so, how? How do we handle the relation between individual and collective models? Are the models prescriptive or descriptive? Page 15 of l9

Such a view of conversation is known to be far from accurate. There appears to be an assumption that what conversation -talk - consists of is simply a series of messages by one person followed by responses from another. Page8of19

Investigating actual work situations, we discover that there are a variety of ways in which people work together, but that many of them do not conform to any of the images of "group" work. We certainly do not want to restrict the scope of GDSSs to those cases where the responsibility of performing a task has been allocated to or assumed by a relatively closed and fixed collective. Page 9 of 19 

As noted by a number of commentators, the work of meetings is often not simply about making decisions about items on the agenda, but ascertaining whether the language used to describe topics is held in common among the members of the group at the meeting.   'Most information is subject to strategic misrepresentation or unconscious bias". S Page7of19 –

accepted view that managers constantly seek additional information in order to improve quality of their decisions has been discounted by empirical evidence. Indeed it appears that often the reverse is case, they try to reduce the amount of information that is to be considered. Page 3

Perhaps "decision" is not the most appropriate concept apon which to develop a theory of support. Lithe awareness of motives and politics in the construction and use of "information" is also neglected in this perspective on DSS, and in MIS more generally. Page 4of19
 In sum, in recent years we have seen an attack on the accepted position of managers as primarily decision makers, based on both conceptual and empirical grounds. The studies paradigmatic of the decision making genre, involving experimental laboratory studies, using students as subjects, has been exposed as of little relevance to what happens when decisions occur in organizations. The neutral conception of topics such as "information" has been demolished.

There is a concern about the social & organizational aspects of decision making and technology support, which go beyond sterile conceptions of "context" as an additional variable that needs to be added to our existing models. The limitations of the models we build and use need to be recognised. There is an interest in allowing for richer forms of interpretation of how people function in organizations, and of how actions are taken. The information processing view of how people function is being enriched, if not replaced, by a range of perspectives such as symbolic interactionism, ethnomethodology, cultural-historical theory, phenomenology, which require us to re-examine the ontologies and epistemologies espoused in traditional material. However, this paper is not so much a Page 4 of 19

There is a large body of work from a number of systems perspectives that would consider GDSS as consisting of four major stages, viz. 1) Recognition of a need or problem ; 2) Generation of evaluative context ; 3) Evaluation of actions/consequences ; 4) Selection of action. Whitaker and many others (e.g. Jones, 1994) point out that many current GDSSs ignore stage 1, and much of stage 2, focusing on stages 3 and 4. There is too much focus on the selection stage, and insufficient time given to understanding the context of the different options. The consequences of this approach are serious. Since there is no room for discussion amongst the participants of the grounds on which information is deemed relevant to the task at hand, this model implicitly imposes a set of normative assumptions on the nature of the meeting process. Page 6 of 19

(ones. M.R. (1994) Infonnation technology for Group Decision Support: Beyond GDSS. Journal of Jrganizational Computing, 4, 1, 23-40.
Boland, Jr., R., Maheshwari, A., Te'eni, D., Schwartz, D., & Tenkasi, (1992) Sharing Perspectives in Distributed Decision Making. In J. Turner & R. Kraut (Eds.), Proceedings of CSCW'92, Computer-Supported Cooperative Work Conference, Toronto, Oct31-Nov.4, pp. 306-313. ACM Press.
Apart from the difficulties adumbrated above concerning the potentially different and divisive ontologies of the actors who produce and use the information, information Is a strategic resource that will be jealously guarded by owner-actors and used in carefully [circwnscribed ways at meetings. The failure to take into account the political perspective creates many problems for ~~b utilisation of information and information technology among certain groups. Page 7 of 19
-7This resulted in the situation that much in the way of background context for the decisions taken by the group, the Efforts at sense making and attempts to come to a common understanding of the items depicted in the system, were not preserved in the system, and thus not available to others who might wish to review this meeting process at a later date. 'l'his poses the question of exactly to what extent do these supposed group support systems actually support the
As we noted earlier, it has - implicitly or explicitly - been the underlying assumption in most of the (GJDSS and CSCW-oriented research thus far that the cooperative work arrangement to be supported by a computer artefact is a small, stable, egalitarian, homogeneous, and harmonious ensemble of people, - a ‘group'. But if we investigate actual work situations, the privileged status of the "group" concept quickly dissolves. page 12 of 19

The cooperative process of decision making in such situations ls a very differentiated process involving the Interaction of multiple goals of different scope and nature as well as different heuristics, conceptual frameworks, etc. (see Schmidt, 1990). Much GDSS work pays relatively scant attention to handling such issues, and the broadening of the scope of classic GDSSs to handle them might be informative.Page 13 of 19

On this latter point, especially in the context of distributed decision-making, it is imperative that the origins of the information are known to all concerned, in order to allow the exercise of mutual ~ critique of the decisions arrived at by colleagues, in that different people may use different problem-solving ~ strategies. Others involved in the distributed decision-making may wish to ascertain this background information, in order to balance Individual biases. Page 13 of 19

By ignoring the diversity and discord of the ‘goals' of the participants involved, the differentiation of strategies, and the incongruence of the conceptual frames of reference within a cooperating ensemble, much of the current GDSS (and indeed CSCW) research evades the problem of how to provide computer support for people co-operating through the establishment of a common information space (Schmidt & Bannon, 1992) page 13 of 19

To synopsize these perspectives the organisational view is still the predominant one in organizations today, grounded in scientific management ideas, " 1 ; focusing on training, tasks, procedures, workflow and teams, in contrast to the activity-oriented view focusing on learning, know-how, networks, conceptual understanding, work practices, ,judgement, and communities (of practice). 08.. Page 14 of 19
