{\rtf1\ansi\deff1\adeflang1025
{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fprq2\fcharset0 Times New Roman{\*\falt Thorndale};}{\f1\froman\fprq0\fcharset0 Arial;}{\f2\fnil\fprq0\fcharset0 Trebuchet MS;}{\f3\froman\fprq0\fcharset0 Arial;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;}
{\stylesheet{\s1\cf1\rtlch\lang255\ltrch\dbch\langfe1033\snext1 Default;}
{\s2\sa120\cf1\rtlch\lang255\ltrch\dbch\langfe1033\sbasedon1\snext2 Text body;}
{\s3\sa120\cf1\rtlch\lang255\ltrch\dbch\langfe1033\loch\f2\sbasedon2\snext3 List;}
{\s4\sb120\sa120\cf1\rtlch\afs20\lang255\ltrch\dbch\afs20\langfe1033\loch\f2\fs20\i\sbasedon1\snext4 Caption;}
{\s5\cf1\rtlch\lang255\ltrch\dbch\langfe1033\loch\f2\sbasedon1\snext5 Index;}
}
{\info{\comment StarWriter}{\vern6410}}\deftab720
{\*\pgdsctbl
{\pgdsc0\pgdscuse195\pgwsxn11905\pghsxn16837\marglsxn1134\margrsxn1134\margtsxn1134\margbsxn1134\pgdscnxt0 Default;}}
\paperh16837\paperw11905\margl1134\margr1134\margt1134\margb1134\sectd\sbknone\pgwsxn11905\pghsxn16837\marglsxn1134\margrsxn1134\margtsxn1134\margbsxn1134\ftnbj\ftnstart1\ftnrstcont\ftnnar\aenddoc\aftnrstcont\aftnstart1\aftnnrlc
\pard\plain \s2\sa120\cf1\rtlch\lang255\ltrch\dbch\langfe1033 {\ltrch\loch\f1 Deirdre Boden {\i The Business of Talk Organizations in Action }Polity Press 1994}
\par 
\par {\ltrch\loch\f1 Many of the large meetings studied here are primarily information  oriented whereas smaller informal meetings are, at least in spirit, decision focussed. This is not to say that many decisions are actually made in most meetings, but they are often neverthe
less the focal point. In fact "decisions\rdblquote  - in the typical sense discussed in business and academic settings, indeed often with many diagrams and much hand-waving - are frequently invisible. It is instead the i{\i ncremental process }of decision-making that is 
the observable feature of so many organizational settings. 84}
\par 
\par {\ltrch\loch\f1 Making the organization \ldblquote work\rdblquote  means supporting (not subverting) rules, policies and goals at the formal level through a constant process of considerable informality. It is in this sense, as I indicated at the outset of this study, that organizations opera
te in an informal mode all the time. They do so because they must. 192    }
\par {\ltrch\loch\f1    }
\par {\ltrch\loch\f1 The essence of my position will  be to argue that we observe our social world, select among options, interpret ambiguity, make decisions, and take action together. That togetherness matters profoundly to what \ldblquote decision-making" is or ever can be. 180}
\par 
\par {\ltrch\loch\f1 Past workplaces of industrial societies depended in large part on standardizing, simplifying, and not infrequently stifling individual flexibility in the interests of production efficiency and organizational effectiveness. Organizations of the future will 
essentially invert this trend . 210}
\par 
\par {\ltrch\loch\f1 Effective work settings and thus successful organizations will increasingly depend on local, decentered, on-the-spot decision-making. 210}
\par 
\par {\ltrch\loch\f1 Transforrnatlons and innovation in organizations occur at the intersection of information and interaction. That intersection is, as we have seen, finely organized and massively dependent on what might usefully be called a \ldblquote just in time'" understandings of 
organizational agendas. Those In turn are developed not as abstract pseudo-rational goals but in the intense settings of everyday Interaction. Increasingly, people in organizations will have to move ahead with quick interpretations of rapidly changing  eve
nts. 210}
\par 
\par {\ltrch\loch\f1 Given the momentary attention spans of modern management and workers, successful organizations will be those that recognize and facilitate high levels of interaction and ready opportunities for quick contact. Locale on-the-spot decision-making and planning
 will be the key to this continuity of structure-in-action is sequence.22 }
\par 
\par {\ltrch\loch\f1 Action coheres as sequence. Through coherent sequences of coordination we discover the structuring quality of all social life. This structuring feeling comes from a multiplex mix of personal, physical and psychological features that give us an embodied sen
se of self, on the one hand, and from an interlocking set of social, spatial and societal sensibilities, on the other. 206}
\par 
\par {\ltrch\loch\f1 This again is the essence of the ethnomethodological position, namely that as social actors discover from within the local logic of their actions, they reflexively - which is to say, conscIously, interactively, and Indexically - locate those activities wit
hin a stream of events that, taken together, constitute the rational production of the organization. In so doing, the local logic of action creates and recreates the smooth and reasonable surface of organizational rationality. 198}
\par 
\par {\ltrch\loch\f1 People, as I have stressed, create practical structures, which they then treat as external, factual and real.180}
\par 
\par {\ltrch\loch\f1 Idealization is what the modern notion of rationality is based upon, and it is, almost by definition, unattainable. But much of the current debate over rational choice and rationality tends to ignore this. Instead, a single external and abstract rationalit
y is assumed to guide action from above. 181}
\par 
\par {\ltrch\loch\f1 Much decision theory and the research based on it also depends on basic assumptions of rather singular rationality and the manner in which degrees of uncertainty of both environment and outcome influence the process of decision-making. 181}
\par 
\par {\ltrch\loch\f1 A central problem is that decision-making is incremental and fragmentary. Actual decisions in organizations are virtually invisible, yet they are the \ldblquote quanta" out of which pivotal choices are made, undesirable strategies avoidedl and critical paths taken. 
The result is best described as that \ldblquote drift of decision-making\rdblquote  suggested by March and hls colleagues, rather than the crisp, goal-oriented, value-maximizing assumptions of many theories of rational action. Decisions, as identifiable items, become clear on
ly after their constitution. 183}
\par 
\par {\ltrch\loch\f1 [S]cientific standards for rationality require four basic elements:(1) a commitment to a means-ends relation as defined by formal logic; (2) semantic clarity and distinctness in defining a situation in which action is to be wakens as well as (3) an interes
t in clarity and rules of procedures for their own sake and not just the task at hand; and finally (4) a willingness to act according to a body of scientific knowledge 186}
\par 
\par {\ltrch\loch\f1 This mismatch between scientific and everyday rationalities results in the routine discovery that people do not follow such pure, general procedures when they make decisions about where to go to dinner or how to make revolution. 186}
\par 
\par {\ltrch\loch\f1 The unfolding logic of decisions-in-progress is dominated by a local focal point that is constantly shifting along a dynamic and often multidirectional time horizon. As social actors look over their shoulders at past actions and decisions, they also look s
ideways, fitting their current activities with parallel points and agents on their organizational landscape. Simultaneity is a critical contingency of action. Nor are these local relevancies of various aspects and stages of a decision-in-progress simply co
nstrained by temporal contingencies; they are also {\i constitutive} of them, creating timeliness con-trollingl to a high degrees the practical enactment of organizational actions and even goals. 191}
\par 
\par {\ltrch\loch\f1 The persistent urge to deal with complex activities in face to-face settings means that space matters centrally to decision-making and to organizations in action.43 191}
\par 
\par }