{\rtf1\ansi\deff0\adeflang1025
{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fprq2\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}{\f1\froman\fprq2\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fnil\fprq0\fcharset0 Trebuchet MS;}{\f3\fswiss\fprq2\fcharset0 Trebuchet MS;}{\f4\froman\fprq2\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}{\f5\fswiss\fprq2\fcharset0 Arial;}{\f6\fnil\fprq2\fcharset0 Aharoni{\*\falt Arial};}{\f7\fnil\fprq2\fcharset0 HG Mincho Light J;}{\f8\fnil\fprq2\fcharset0 Arial Unicode MS;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;}
{\stylesheet{\s1\cf1{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\aspalpha\rtlch\af8\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af7\afs24\langfe255\loch\f0\fs24\lang255\snext1 Default;}
{\s2\sb227\sa119\sl360\slmult1\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\afs24\langfe255\loch\f3\fs21\lang2057\sbasedon1\snext2 Text body;}
{\s3\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af0\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af0\afs24\langfe255\loch\f2\fs24\lang2057\sbasedon2\snext3 List;}
{\s4\sb120\sa120\rtlch\afs20\lang255\ltrch\dbch\afs20\langfe255\loch\fs20\lang2057\i\sbasedon1\snext4 Caption;}
{\s5\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\afs24\langfe255\loch\f2\fs24\lang2057\sbasedon1\snext5 Index;}
{\s6\sb240\sa120\keepn\rtlch\afs28\lang255\ltrch\dbch\afs28\langfe255\loch\f5\fs28\lang2057\sbasedon1\snext2 Heading;}
{\s7\cf0\qc{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af0\afs32\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af0\afs32\langfe255\loch\f3\fs32\lang2057\b\sbasedon6\snext2{\*\soutlvl0} Heading 1;}
{\s8{\*\tlswg8236}\tqc\tx4818{\*\tlswg8236}\tqr\tx9637\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\afs24\langfe255\loch\fs24\lang2057\sbasedon1\snext8 Header;}
{\s9{\*\tlswg8236}\tqc\tx4818{\*\tlswg8236}\tqr\tx9637\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\afs24\langfe255\loch\fs24\lang2057\sbasedon1\snext9 Footer;}
{\s10\sb346\sa119\cf0\sl360\slmult1{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af0\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af0\afs24\langfe255\loch\f3\fs21\lang2057\sbasedon4\snext10 Text;}
{\s11\li283\ri0\lin283\rin0\fi0\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af0\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af0\afs24\langfe255\loch\fs24\lang2057\sbasedon2\snext11 Text body indent;}
{\*\cs13\cf1\rtlch\af8\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af7\afs24\langfe255\loch\f0\fs24\lang255 Numbering Symbols;}
}
{\info{\comment StarWriter}{\vern6450}}\deftab1250
{\*\pgdsctbl
{\pgdsc0\pgdscuse195\pgwsxn11905\pghsxn16837\marglsxn1134\margrsxn1134\margtsxn1134\margbsxn1134\headery0{\*\headeryb394\headerxl0\headerxr0\headeryh677}{\header \pard\plain \s8\qr{\*\tlswg8236}\tqc\tx4818{\*\tlswg8236}\tqr\tx9637\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\afs24\langfe255\loch\f6\fs20\lang2057{\field{\*\fldinst \\page\\* ARABIC}{\fldrslt 2}}
\par }
\footery0{\*\footeryt394\footerxl0\footerxr0\footeryh677}{\footer \pard\plain \s9\qc{\*\tlswg8236}\tqc\tx4818{\*\tlswg8236}\tqr\tx9637\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\afs24\langfe255\loch\f6\fs20\lang2057 
\par }
\pgdscnxt0 Default;}}
{\*\pgdscno0}\paperh16837\paperw11905\margl1134\margr1134\margt1134\margb1134\sectd\sbknone\pgwsxn11905\pghsxn16837\marglsxn1134\margrsxn1134\margtsxn1811\margbsxn1811\headery1134{\header \pard\plain \s8\qr{\*\tlswg8236}\tqc\tx4818{\*\tlswg8236}\tqr\tx9637\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\afs24\langfe255\loch\f6\fs20\lang2057{\field{\*\fldinst \\page\\* ARABIC}{\fldrslt 2}}
\par }
\footery1134{\footer \pard\plain \s9\qc{\*\tlswg8236}\tqc\tx4818{\*\tlswg8236}\tqr\tx9637\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\afs24\langfe255\loch\f6\fs20\lang2057 
\par }
\ftnbj\ftnstart1\ftnrstcont\ftnnar\aenddoc\aftnrstcont\aftnstart1\aftnnrlc
\pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\sl360\slmult1\sb227\sa119\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\afs24\langfe255\loch\f3\fs21\lang2057 {\loch\f3\fs21\lang2057\i0\b0 Delanda, Manuel, {\i Intensive Science and Virtual Philosophy, }Continuum, London & New York, 2002}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\sl360\slmult1\sb227\sa119\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\afs24\langfe255\loch\f3\fs21\lang2057 {\loch\f3\fs21\lang2057\i0\b0 For Deleuze a problem is defined precisely by 'a distribution of the singular and the ordinary, the important and the unimportant, the relevant and the irrelevant' (DeLanda, 2002, 127).}
\par {\loch\f3\fs21\lang2057\i0\b0 The role of the thinker is not so much to utter truths or establish facts, but to distinguish among the large population of true facts those that are important and relevant from those that are not. {\i Importance and relevance, }not truth, are the key concepts 
in Deleuze's epistemology (5)}
\par {\loch\f3\fs21\lang2057\i0\b0 Deleuze stresses the role of correctly posed {\i problems, } rather than their true solutions, a problem being well-posed if it captures an objective distribution of the important and the unimportant, or mathematically, of {\i the singular and the ordinary. } (5)}
\par {\loch\f3\fs21\lang2057\i0\b0 Besides the great simplification achieved by modelling complex dynamical processes as trajectories in a space of possible states, there is the added advantage that mathematicians can bring new resources to bear to the study and solution of the physical pro
blems involved (14)}
\par {\loch\f3\fs21\lang2057\i0\b0 Unlike essences which are always abstract and general entities, multiplicities are {\i concrete universals.  ... }Unlike the generality of essences, and the resemblance with which this generality endows instantiations of an essence, the universality of a multip
licity is typically {\i divergent: }the different realizations of a multiplicity bear no resemblance whatsoever to it and there is in principle no end to the set of potential divergent forms it may adopt. (22)}
\par {\loch\f3\fs21\lang2057\i0\b0 It is in this sense that singularities represent only long-term tendencies of a system, never its actual states. (32)}
\par {\loch\f3\fs21\lang2057\i0\b0 The virtual, in a sense, leaves behind traces of itself in the intensive processes it animates, and the philosopher's task may be seen as that of a detective who follows these tracks or connects these clues and in the process, creates a reservoir of concep
tual resources to be used in completing the project. (44)}
\par {\loch\f3\fs21\lang2057\i0\b0 It is through such piece-meal replacements that literal content may be imparted to, and metaphorical content removed from, our guiding image for the actualization of the virtual in space. (56)}
\par {\loch\f3\fs21\lang2057\i0\b0 Thus, rather than indivisibility, the key concept in the definition of the intensive is {\i productive difference, } as well as the related concepts of endogenous stable state (such as a thermodynamic equilibrium state) and of critical transitions between state
s. (61)}
\par {\loch\f3\fs21\lang2057\i0\b0 While the relation between intensities and singularities does not involve any departure from the thermodynamic definition of 'intensive', adding capacities implies extending that definition. (63)}
\par {\loch\f3\fs21\lang2057\i0\b0 One of the tasks of a philosopher attempting to create a theory of virtuality is to locate those areas of the world where the virtual is still expressed, and use the unactualized tendencies and capacities one discovers there as sources of insight into the 
nature of virtual multiplicities (67)}
\par {\loch\f3\fs21\lang2057\i0\b0 No doubt, it is much simpler to assume the existence of Platonic entities than to define a complex operation through which these entities are meshed into a continuum thereby acquiring  a certain autonomy from actual events. (110)}
\par {\loch\f3\fs21\lang2057\i0\b0 In epistemological terms to extract an ideal event from an actually occurring one is , basically, to define what is {\i problematic } about it, to grasp what about the event {\i objectively stands in need of explanation.} This involves discerning in the actual event
 what is relevant and irrelevant for its explanation, what is important and what is not. That, it involves correctly grasping the {\i objective distribution of the singular and the ordinary} defining a well-posed problem. (116)}
\par {\loch\f3\fs21\lang2057\i0\b0 For Deleuze a problem is defined precisely by  a distribution of the singular and the ordinary, the important and the unimportant, the relevant and irrelevant. A well-posed problem gets these distributions right, and a solution always has the truth it dese
rves according to how well-specified the corresponding problem is. (127)}
\par {\loch\f3\fs21\lang2057\i0\b0 Despite the fact that questions and answers are, indeed, linguistic entities, Why questions involve as part of the conditions that make them {\i answerable}, or well-posed, a non-linguistic or extra-propositional aspect which is properly problematic: a distribu
tion of the relevant and the irrelevant. (129)}
\par {\loch\f3\fs21\lang2057\i0\b0 How does a distribution of singularities objectively define the correctness or truth of a problem? (131)}
\par {\loch\f3\fs21\lang2057\i0\b0 In Deleuze's approach the relation between well-posed explanatory problems and their true or false solutions is the epistemological counterpart of the ontological relation between the virtual and the actual. Explanatory problems would be the counterpart of
 virtual multiplicities since, as he says, 'the virtual possess the reality of task to be performed or a problem to be solved.' Individual solutions, on the other hand, would be the counterpart of actual individual beings. (135)}
\par {\loch\f3\fs21\lang2057\i0\b0 As Deleuze writes, 'Learning is the appropriate name for the subjective acts carried out when one is confronted with the objectivity of a problem ... whereas knowledge designates only the generality of concepts of the claim to possession of a rule enabling
 solutions' (144).}
\par {\loch\f3\fs21\lang2057\i0\b0 What makes a material system problematic, what continuously demands new explanations, is precisely the open-endedness of the assemblages it may form, or the multiple stable states in which it may exist and the abrupt transitions it may undergo. (144)}
\par {\loch\f3\fs21\lang2057\i0\b0 [R]ather than general solvability defining the correctness of a problem, {\i the form of a problem became the explanation of general solvability. }(150)}
\par {\loch\f3\fs21\lang2057\i0\b0 This is what Deleuze means when he says that 'it is not the solution which lends it generality to the problem, but the problem which lends its universality to the solution'. (150)}
\par {\loch\f3\fs21\lang2057\i0\b0 In short, a theory of virtuality as has been pursued in these pages depends fundamentally on the results of the reversal of the problem-solution relations, and conversely, subordinating problems to solutions may be seen as a practice that effectively hides
 the virtual, or that promotes the illusion that the actual world is all that must be explained. (154)}
\par {\loch\f3\fs21\lang2057\i0\b0 [T]he ontology I have developed in this book is fully historical. Each of the individuals which populates this other world is a product of a definite historical process of individuation and, to the extent that an individual's identity is defined by its eme
rgent properties and that these properties depend on the continuing causal interactions among an individual's parts, each individual is itself a historical causal process. (155)}
\par }