{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f1\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0604020202020204}Arial;}
{\f33\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f34\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f36\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f37\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}
{\f38\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\f39\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\f40\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\f41\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Arial CE;}{\f42\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Arial Cyr;}
{\f44\fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Arial Greek;}{\f45\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Arial Tur;}{\f46\fswiss\fcharset177\fprq2 Arial (Hebrew);}{\f47\fswiss\fcharset178\fprq2 Arial (Arabic);}{\f48\fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Arial Baltic;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;
\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\ql \li0\ri0\sl360\slmult1\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f1\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 
\sbasedon0 \snext15 Body Text;}}{\info{\title Differences IN MEDICINE}{\author adrian  mackenzie}{\operator adrian  mackenzie}{\creatim\yr2001\mo8\dy28\hr13\min43}{\revtim\yr2001\mo8\dy28\hr13\min43}{\version2}{\edmins0}{\nofpages1}{\nofwords222}
{\nofchars1267}{\nofcharsws0}{\vern8247}}\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\horzdoc\dghspace120\dgvspace120\dghorigin1701\dgvorigin1984\dghshow0\dgvshow3
\jcompress\viewkind1\viewscale86\viewzk2\nolnhtadjtbl \fet0\sectd \linex0\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3
\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\sl360\slmult1
\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\f1\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\langnp1033 Differences IN MEDICINE. Unraveling Practices, Techniques and Bodies Marc Berg and Annemarie Mole editors
\par Duke University Press Durham and London 1998
\par Introduction 3
\par }\pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\sl360\slmult1\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f1\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
few years ago Donna Haraway wrote: "But if there has been recognition of the many non-, para-, anti-, or extrascientific languages in company with biomedicine that structure the embodied semiosis of mortality in the industrialized world, it is 
much less common to find emphases on the multiple language within the territory that is so often glibly marked scientific." Haraway 1991: 204.
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\sl360\slmult1\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\f1\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\langnp1033 
The image of a unified medicine gives way to one that overflows with diversity. But how is this diversity to be understood? Is it not a mere artifact, an effect of corning ever closer to the messiness of practice? What is its relevance? Introduction 7

\par First. diversity is sometimes taken to be a problem, something to fight against 7
\par A second way to conceive of diversity is to imagine that however impressive may look on the surface, a deeper unity hides behind it38 au unity that is all the stronger because of its disguise. 7
\par if diversity neither hides a fundamental diversity nor signals a freedom that deserves celebrati
on then what does it do? That question, we think, is precisely what requires investigation. Our studies show both unifying and disruptive forces; both continuities and discontinuities. They point at tensions among shaping practices, bodies, and lives in v
arious diverging ways: tensions between making the world run in this, rather than in some other way. 7
\par 
\par 
\par }}