The  index,  more  insistently  than  any  other  type  of  sign,  is haunted by its object. The index is “actually modified” by its object (Peirce, 143). It puts its addressee into a “real connection” with its object, and at one point, Peirce defines the index as “being really and in its individual existence connected with the individual object” ( Peirce 251). Indices “furnish positive assurance of the reality and the nearness of their Objects” (25). But they are limited to the assurance of an existence; they provide no insight into the nature of their objects; they have no cognitive value, but simply indicate that something is “there.” Hence, the “real” referenced by the index is not the “real” of realism, which purports to give the spectator knowledge of the world. The index is reduced to its own singularity; it appears as a brute and opaque fact, wedded to contingency—pure indication, pure assurance of existence 135

Resemblance may occur, but it is not necessary to the functioning of the index as sheer evidence that something has happened, that something exists or existed. 135

Something of the object leaves a legible residue through the medium of touch. The index as trace implies a  material  connection  between  sign  and  object  as  well  as  an  insistent temporality—the  reproducibility  of  a  past  moment.  The  trace  does  not evaporate in the moment of its production, but remains as the witness of an anteriority.  136

The second definition of the index, on the other hand, often seems to harbor a resistance to the first. The index as deixis—the pointing finger, the “this” of language—does exhaust itself in the moment of its implementation and is ineluctably linked to presence. There is always a gap between sign and object, and touch here is only figurative. 136

It might be argued that insofar as a medium derives its identity from its relation to the material conditions of its technical support, the limits of the hardware would delineate the specificity of the digital. But in the realm of aesthetics, at least, it is crucial not to forget the inextricability of the medium and the aesthetic object, which not only bears the imprint of its material conditions of existence but continually struggles to redefine and expand the limits of the medium. The motor behind the expansion of the limits of the digital is that of notions of technological progress, of speed, of expanded memory. And the relation of digital representations to their material conditions of existence (which does exist) is so abstract as to be almost unattainable. For the digital exudes a  fantasy  of  immateriality,  in  contrast  to  the  fantasy  of  referentiality  of the indexical 143.
