{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f1\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0604020202020204}Arial;}
{\f33\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f34\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f36\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f37\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}
{\f38\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\f39\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\f40\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\f41\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Arial CE;}{\f42\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Arial Cyr;}
{\f44\fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Arial Greek;}{\f45\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Arial Tur;}{\f46\fswiss\fcharset177\fprq2 Arial (Hebrew);}{\f47\fswiss\fcharset178\fprq2 Arial (Arabic);}{\f48\fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Arial Baltic;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;
\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}}{\info
{\title Formality Considered Harmful: Experiences, Emerging Themes, and Directions on the Use of Formal Representations in Interactive}{\author adrian  mackenzie}{\operator adrian  mackenzie}{\creatim\yr2001\mo7\dy25\hr10\min9}
{\revtim\yr2001\mo8\dy28\hr13\min42}{\version3}{\edmins4}{\nofpages2}{\nofwords783}{\nofchars4465}{\nofcharsws0}{\vern8247}}\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\horzdoc\dghspace120\dgvspace120
\dghorigin1701\dgvorigin1984\dghshow0\dgvshow3\jcompress\viewkind4\viewscale95\nolnhtadjtbl \fet0\sectd \linex0\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}
{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain 
\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\f1\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\langnp1033 
Formality Considered Harmful: Experiences, Emerging Themes, and Directions on the Use of Formal Representations in Interactive Systems
\par 
\par FRANK M. SHIPMAN III & CATHERINE C. MARSHALL
\par Computer Supported Cooperative Work 8: 333-352, 1999.
\par 
\par Reflecting on experiences with a variety of systems, we argue that the use of formal representations hinders this articulation thus causing many of the difficulties encountered by CSCW systems. 334
\par 
\par When formalisms are embedded in computer systems, users o
ften must engage in activities that might not ordinarily be part of their tasks: breaking information into chunks, characterizing content with a name or keywords, categorizing information, or specifying how pieces of information are related.  334
\par 
\par The goals of formal argumentation or design rationale include lower maintenance costs on products, and better designs due to the earlier discovery of inconsistencies and rniscommunications. 338
\par 
\par First, people aren't always able to chunk intertwined ideas; we have 
observed, for example, positions with arguments embedded in them. Second, people seldom agree on how information can be classified and related in this general scheme; what one person thinks is an argument may be an issue to someone else. 338
\par 
\par Finally, there is always information that falls between the cracks, no matter how well thought out the formal representation is. Conklin and Begeman document the latter problem in their experiences with gIBIS (ConMin and Begeman, 1988). 339
\par 
\par Formalisms are often diffic
ult for people to use because they need to take many extra steps (and make additional decisions) to specify anything. These extra decisions may involve chunking, naming, linking, and labeling, where formal languages require much more explicitly defined bo
undanes, names for subparts, connections between chunks, and labels for such connections than their informal counterparts. 341
\par 
\par When such introspection becomes necessary to produce and apply a formal representation during a task it necessarily interrupts th
e task; the introspection structures and changes it. These changes may be detrimental to the user's ability to accomplish what he or she set out to do. 342
\par 
\par The process of formalizing information requires one to commit to an explicit structure for the info
rmation. One definition of structure is bathe elements of an entity or the position of such elements in their relationships to each other." Since a user's understanding of any non-trivial task, such as performing an analysis or completing a design, evolve
s
 as they attempt to complete the task, users resist making such commitments. The negative effects of prematurely or unnecessarily imposing a sbnacture have been recorded in both the hypertext (Halasz, 1988) and (lesign rationale (Shum, 1991) literature. 3
43
\par 
\par The difficulties of creating useful formalizations to support individuals are compounded when different people must share the formalization.  344
\par 
\par But what is the central task for more general-purpose systems to support intellectual work and, informatio
nally, what does it require? What must be formalized for a system to support the organization and sharing of information? Does the content just have to be entered into the system, or for the system to work, does extra information, such as hypertextual str
ucture need to be specified? To answer these questions, participatory design techniques can be applied to gain an understanding of the users' work practices and possible formalisms to support these practices 346
\par 
\par Another approach to addressing the problems of formality is to make some formalization only required for using optional features of the system. 346
\par 
\par Longer tasks necessarily involve reconceptualization; the gradual evolution of human understanding during task performance underlies many of the proble
ms associated with formalization. Providing mechanisms for information to be entered in a less formal representation and then be incrementally formalized and structured is thus a fundamental way system designers can support intellectual activities with co
mputational tools (Shipman, 1993). 347
\par 
\par Incremental formalization strategies seek to reduce the overhead of entering information, and defer formalization of that information until later in the task. 347
\par 
\par In the Hyper-Object Substrate (HOS) (Shipman and McCall, 1994) we have investigated the potential to support users by suggesting possible formalizations based on recognized patterns in textual information. 347
\par 
\par Another approach to improving the acceptance of such systems involves helping users learn and understand the expected use of the formalisms through training or through facilitation. 349
\par 
\par The difficulties users experience in defining, applying, and instanti
ating formalisms are not just interface problems. Users are hesitant about formalization because of a fear of prematurely committing to a specific perspective on their tasks; tills may be especially true in a collaborative setting, where people must agree
 
on an appropriate formalism and the conventions for encoding information into them. Even when users know precisely what they want to formalize there is the added overhead of learning the formalism and determining how to instantiate their desires in the fo
rmalism provided. Additionally, achieving an understanding of what to formalize can require users to become conscious of knowledge that is usually tacit. 349
\par }}