{\rtf1\ansi\deff3\adeflang1025
{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fprq2\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}{\f1\froman\fprq2\fcharset2 Symbol;}{\f2\fswiss\fprq2\fcharset0 Arial;}{\f3\froman\fprq2\fcharset128 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fswiss\fprq2\fcharset128 Arial;}{\f5\fswiss\fprq0\fcharset128 Arial;}{\f6\fswiss\fprq0\fcharset128 AdvPS8588;}{\f7\froman\fprq0\fcharset128 AdvPS8585;}{\f8\fnil\fprq0\fcharset128 AdvMT_RM;}{\f9\fnil\fprq2\fcharset128 MS Mincho;}{\f10\fnil\fprq2\fcharset128 Tahoma;}{\f11\fnil\fprq0\fcharset128 Tahoma;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;}
{\stylesheet{\s0\snext0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\aspalpha\ltrpar\cf0\kerning1\hich\af12\langfe255\dbch\af10\afs24\lang255\loch\f3\fs24\lang2057 Normal;}
{\s15\sbasedon0\snext16\sb240\sa120\keepn\hich\af9\dbch\af10\afs28\loch\f4\fs28 Heading;}
{\s16\sbasedon0\snext16\sb0\sa120 Text body;}
{\s17\sbasedon16\snext17\sb0\sa120\dbch\af11 List;}
{\s18\sbasedon0\snext18\sb120\sa120\noline\i\dbch\af11\afs24\ai\fs24 Caption;}
{\s19\sbasedon0\snext19\noline\dbch\af11 Index;}
}{\info{\author abm}{\creatim\yr2009\mo4\dy6\hr15\min44}{\author abm}{\revtim\yr2009\mo4\dy6\hr16\min56}{\printim\yr0\mo0\dy0\hr0\min0}{\comment LibreOffice}{\vern3300}}\deftab709

{\*\pgdsctbl
{\pgdsc0\pgdscuse195\pgwsxn11905\pghsxn16837\marglsxn1134\margrsxn1134\pgdscnxt0 Default;}}
\formshade\paperh16837\paperw11905\margl1134\margr1134\margt1134\margb1134\sectd\sbknone\sectunlocked1\pgndec\pgwsxn11905\pghsxn16837\marglsxn1134\margrsxn1134\ftnbj\ftnstart1\ftnrstcont\ftnnar\aenddoc\aftnrstcont\aftnstart1\aftnnrlc
\pgndec\pard\plain \s16\sb0\sa120{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
\{Fortun, 2005 #979\}}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\aspalpha\ltrpar\cf0\kerning1\hich\af12\langfe255\dbch\af10\afs24\lang255\loch\f3\fs24\lang2057\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0{\b\hich\af5\dbch\af5\afs24\ab\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs24\loch\f5
Fortun, M.}{\hich\af5\dbch\af5\afs24\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs24\loch\f5
 2005 '}{\hich\af5\dbch\af5\afs28\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs28\loch\f5
For an ethics of promising, or: a few kind words about James Watson}{\hich\af5\dbch\af5\afs24\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs24\loch\f5
', }{\i\hich\af5\dbch\af5\afs24\ai\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs24\loch\f5
New Genetics and Society}{\hich\af5\dbch\af5\afs24\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs24\loch\f5
 24(2): 157-173.}
\par \pard\plain \s16\sb0\sa120{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
}
\par \pard\plain \s16\sb0\sa120{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
I did not remain open to the promise, to a future still to come\uc3 \u8212\'e2\'80\'94maybe\u8212\'e2\'80\'94that would not simply repeat the past and present. 158\uc1 }
\par \pard\plain \s16\sb0\sa120{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
}
\par \pard\plain \s16\sb0\sa120{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
But it\uc3 \u8217\'e2\'80\'99s precisely because promising is always open to such \u8216\'e2\'80\'98infelicities\u8217\'e2\'80\'99, as J.L. Austin (1962) has put it, that I think inventing an ethics of promising is so vital for our future engagements with genomics. 158\uc1 }
\par \pard\plain \s16\sb0\sa120{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
}
\par \pard\plain \s16\sb0\sa120{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Nietzsche\uc3 \u8217\'e2\'80\'99s promise, science\u8217\'e2\'80\'99s promise, is not an anchoring device. The \u8216\'e2\'80\'98being of exceeding\u8217\'e2\'80\'99 is a different kind of promise than the Arendtian one; it operates not through establishing certainty, but through the risky affirmation of a recurring, iterative opening rather than anchoring of a future. This promise is implicated in the inhuman innards of technoscience. This promise is a fragment of the future implicated in the hidden folds of the present, freeing it rather than anchoring it. This promise is a chip of futural excess, invisibly disrupting the reproduction of the same, to experiment on the new. Science becomes such that it always seeks its own preemption, always promises to exceed itself, always makes it possible to always go beyond. 165\uc1 }
\par \pard\plain \s16\sb0\sa120{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
}
\par \pard\plain \s16\sb0\sa120{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
These are scientists whose daily work and thought occurs within this culture of excess, a culture of always going- beyond, a culture of promisings. Astonishment is a regular feature of this genomics landscape, and that is something that needs to be ethnographically reckoned with.166}
\par \pard\plain \s16\sb0\sa120{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
By the same token, genomics can be considered a domain of ethical practice, its acts also occurring within a field of excessive forces. 166}
\par \pard\plain \s16\sb0\sa120{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
}
\par \pard\plain \s16\sb0\sa120{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Or more accurately: a bioethical form of relation that can give the genomicist the right to make promises about the future truths of the life sciences. \uc3 \u8216\'e2\'80\'98Care of the data\u8217\'e2\'80\'99 is my shorthand for that relation, which of course also involves forming a particular kind of self capable of establishing or undergoing that relationship. 167\uc1 }
\par \pard\plain \s16\sb0\sa120{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
}
\par \pard\plain \s16\sb0\sa120{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Having a right to make promises will have entailed learning to live with, and cultivate, the excesses of promising. Promising, and promising genomics in particular, is a matter of excess\uc3 \u8212\'e2\'80\'94the excess of biological matter as much as anything else. An organism like you, me, or a zebrafish, exceeds its genetic \u8216\'e2\'80\'98code\u8217\'e2\'80\'99. 171\uc1 }
\par \pard\plain \s16\sb0\sa120{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Organisms, illnesses, events, politics, ethics, technological development\uc3 \u8212\'e2\'80\'94all of these are matters ofFor an ethics of promising 171 \uc1 }
\par \pard\plain \s16\sb0\sa120\sb0\sa120{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
excess, that happen without our full understanding or control, as the cumulative, emergent effect of a multiplicity of forces: promises\uc3 \u8212\'e2\'80\'94 . . .171-2\uc1 }
\par }