{\rtf1\ansi\deff1\adeflang1025
{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fprq2\fcharset0 Nimbus Roman No9 L;}{\f1\fnil\fprq0\fcharset0 Trebuchet MS;}{\f2\fnil\fprq0\fcharset0 Trebuchet MS;}{\f3\fnil\fprq0\fcharset0 Arial;}{\f4\fnil\fprq0\fcharset0 Bitstream Courier;}{\f5\fnil\fprq2\fcharset0 Bitstream Vera Sans;}{\f6\fnil\fprq2\fcharset0 Mincho;}{\f7\fnil\fprq2\fcharset0 Lucidasans;}{\f8\fnil\fprq0\fcharset0 Lucidasans;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;}
{\stylesheet{\s1\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af7\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af5\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\snext1 Default;}
{\s2\sb240\sa120\keepn\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\afs28\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af6\afs28\langfe255\loch\f3\fs28\lang2057\sbasedon1\snext3 Heading;}
{\s3\sa120\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af7\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af5\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\sbasedon1\snext3 Text body;}
{\s4\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af8\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af5\afs24\langfe255\loch\fs24\lang2057\sbasedon3\snext4 List;}
{\s5\sb120\sa120\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af8\afs20\lang255\ai\ltrch\dbch\af5\afs20\langfe255\ai\loch\fs20\lang2057\i\sbasedon1\snext5 Caption;}
{\s6\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af8\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af5\afs24\langfe255\loch\fs24\lang2057\sbasedon1\snext6 Index;}
}
{\info{\author abm}{\creatim\yr2004\mo10\dy11\hr9\min29}{\operator abm}{\revtim\yr2004\mo10\dy11\hr9\min35}{\printim\yr1601\mo1\dy1\hr0\min0}{\comment StarWriter}{\vern6450}}\deftab709
{\*\pgdsctbl
{\pgdsc0\pgdscuse195\pgwsxn11905\pghsxn16837\marglsxn1134\margrsxn1134\margtsxn1134\margbsxn1134\pgdscnxt0 Default;}}
\paperh16837\paperw11905\margl1134\margr1134\margt1134\margb1134\sectd\sbknone\pgwsxn11905\pghsxn16837\marglsxn1134\margrsxn1134\margtsxn1134\margbsxn1134\ftnbj\ftnstart1\ftnrstcont\ftnnar\aenddoc\aftnrstcont\aftnstart1\aftnnrlc
\pard\plain \ltrpar\s1\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af7\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af5\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057 {\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 \{Fuller, 2003 #318\}}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s1\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af4\afs28\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af4\afs28\langfe255\loch\f4\fs28\lang2057 {\loch\f4\fs28\lang2057\i0\b0 Fuller, Matthew. {\ul Behind the Blip : Essays on the Culture of Software}. New York: Autonomedia, 2003.}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s1\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af4\afs28\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af4\afs28\langfe255\loch\f4\fs28\lang2057 
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s1\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af4\afs28\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af4\afs28\langfe255\loch\f4\fs28\lang2057 {\loch\f4\fs28\lang2057\i0\b0 These blips, these events in software, these processes and regimes that data is subject to and manufactured by, provide flashpoints at which these interrelations, collaborations, and conflicts can be picked out and analysed for their valences of power, for
 their manifold capacities of control and production, disturbance and invention. It is the assertion of speculative software that the enormous spread of economies, systems of representation, of distribution, hiding, showing, and influence as they mesh with
 other systems of circulation, of life, ecology, resources \endash  themselves always both escaping and compelling electronic and digital manifestation \endash  can be intercepted, mapped, and reconfigured precisely by means of these blips (30-31).}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s1\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af4\afs28\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af4\afs28\langfe255\loch\f4\fs28\lang2057 {\loch\f4\fs28\lang2057\i0\b0 What are these blips? They are interpretative and reductive operations carried out on live processes. They are the statistical residues of dynamics of association, escape, misery, acquiescence, and delight. They are not merely signifiers of an event, but i
ntegral parts of it. The figures in a bank balance, the links appearing in a web browser, are concrete arrangements, formations that determine relative degrees of potential movements within a specified level of analysis or use of a system. They have an imp
licit politics.31}
\par }