{\rtf1\ansi\deff1\adeflang1025
{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fprq2\fcharset0 Times New Roman{\*\falt Thorndale};}{\f1\fnil\fprq0\fcharset0 Arial;}{\f2\fnil\fprq0\fcharset0 Trebuchet MS;}{\f3\fnil\fprq0\fcharset0 Arial;}{\f4\fswiss\fprq2\fcharset0 Trebuchet MS;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;}
{\stylesheet{\s1\cf1\rtlch\lang255\ltrch\dbch\langfe1033\loch\lang255\snext1 Default;}
{\s2\sa120\cf1\rtlch\lang255\ltrch\dbch\langfe1033\loch\f4\lang255\sbasedon1\snext2 Text body;}
{\s3\sa120\cf1\rtlch\lang255\ltrch\dbch\langfe1033\loch\f2\lang255\sbasedon2\snext3 List;}
{\s4\sb120\sa120\cf1\rtlch\afs20\lang255\ltrch\dbch\afs20\langfe1033\loch\f2\fs20\lang255\i\sbasedon1\snext4 Caption;}
{\s5\cf1\rtlch\lang255\ltrch\dbch\langfe1033\loch\f2\lang255\sbasedon1\snext5 Index;}
}
{\info{\comment StarWriter}{\vern6410}}\deftab720
{\*\pgdsctbl
{\pgdsc0\pgdscuse195\pgwsxn11905\pghsxn16837\marglsxn1134\margrsxn1134\margtsxn1134\margbsxn1134\pgdscnxt0 Default;}}
\paperh16837\paperw11905\margl1134\margr1134\margt1134\margb1134\sectd\sbknone\pgwsxn11905\pghsxn16837\marglsxn1134\margrsxn1134\margtsxn1134\margbsxn1134\ftnbj\ftnstart1\ftnrstcont\ftnnar\aenddoc\aftnrstcont\aftnstart1\aftnnrlc
\pard\plain \s2\sa120\cf1\rtlch\lang255\ltrch\dbch\langfe1033\loch\f4\lang255 {\ltrch\loch\f4 Gatens, Moira & Lloyd, Genevieve {\i Collective Imaginings. Spinoza, past and present }Routledge, London & New York 1999 }
\par 
\par {\ltrch\loch\f4 Imagination is for Spinoza a form of bodily awareness. 12}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f4 Imagination involves the coming together of mind and body in the most immediate way: mind is the idea of body. 12}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f4 It is through imagination that mind has body as its object in the most immediate way. Here minds are constituted as awareness of bodily modifications - modifications through which we are aware of other bodies as well as our own. 12}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f4 The human body one such composite individual - a union of parts acting as a centre of communicating and communicated motion. Each individual body exerts a causal force on others, and each is in turn constantly impinged on by others. 13}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f4 In being aware of its body, the mind is aware not just of one material thing but of other bodies impinging on that body. It is aware, that is, of its own body together with other bodies and of other bodies together with its own. The  mind, as idea of the b
ody, incorporates ideas of other bodies; and those ideas can involve awareness of transitions to greater and less states of activity under the influence of congenial and rival forces. This experience of other bodies together with our own is the basis of im
agination. It is also the basis of Spinoza's account of the emotions or 'affects'. Where those bodies are like our own - human bodies which undergo similar modifications  - this experience of other bodies can intensify our awareness of our own desires, joy
s and pains. 14}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f4 Our bodies retain traces of the changes brought about in them by the impinging of other bodies. So the mind will again regard external bodies as present even when they no longer exist. 18}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f4 The order of imagination is not the order of reason. But reason can come to an understanding of the associations which operate between images, of the ways in which they are affected by emotion, and of the ways in which those interactions of imagination and
 emotion are themselves affected by the collectivities into which human beings are drawn through interaction with bodies similar to their own. 24}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f4 To be an individual is, as we saw earlier, to be determined to act through the mediation of other finite modes, and likewise to determine those others. Since imagination is by definition the awareness of our own bodies together with others, this interactio
n between bodies essentially involves imagination. But this bodily awareness which is the very nature of imagination is also closely bound up with {\i conatus}. 27}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f4 In this direct bodily awareness there is no room for falsity; nor is there any way in which the intellect's knowledge of the truth could of itself dispel the immediate awareness with which it coexists. 37}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f4 Emotions cluster around images - traces of previous bodily modifications. The power of these images is strengthened or diminished by dynamic social collectivities formed or disrupted by the associations our bodies form with others. In civil society the und
erstanding of these processes is represented in laws, religious rituals and wide-ranging social fictions, which give a unity to those clustering of images and affects through which we understand - however inadequately ourselves, others and the social whole
s we form with them. 40}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f4 The affects are for Spinoza states of awareness of bodily transitions. But because imagination involves ideas by which the mind considers a thing as present - ideas which nevertheless indicate the constitution of the human body more than the nature of the 
external thing - an affect also an imagining, insofar as it indicates the constitution of the body (EIVP9D). The affects are for Spinoza transitions in bodily power and intensity. The awareness of actual bodily modification - the awareness of things as pre
sent - is fundamental to the affects; and this is what makes the definition of the affects overlap with that of imagination. 52}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f4 An affect whose cause we imagine to be with us in the present is more intense than if we do not imagine it to be with us (EIW9D). The images of future or past things, considered in themselves without reference to their causes, affect us just as much as if 
we were imagining something as present. For all are, as images, present modifications of our bodies and hence of our Minds which are the 'ideas' of those bodies. 52}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f4 Our imagining is affectively more intense when we imagine nothing which excludes the present existence of the external thing. 53}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f4 Human powers are strengthened by sharing forces with external bodies which affect us with joy. Our powers - our joys - are strengthened by 'having dealings' with things outside us; and of those external things none are more useful to us and hence more exce
llent than those which 'agree entirely with our nature', our fellow human beings (EIVP18S). 53}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f4 Individual selfhood is not possible in isolation: it depends on continuing engagement with and disengagement from other selves in changing structures of affect and imagination. Selfhood arises within a complex affective framework in which emotions circulat
e through systems of social relations. The self's sphere of striving expands and contracts as patterns of affect, characteristically organised around images, are formed and transformed. 65}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f4 Spinoza talks of the multitude, he understands it not as the abstraction of 'the people', but as the 'historical and political reality of the mass and of crowds in movement' (Balibar 1994: 16). Imagination and affect are crucial here. Love and hate here be
come not so much relations of recognition between selves as concatenations of affects which are always partial, which are reinforced the repetition of encounters, by the collision of words and images,  and which separate or reunite individuals in the imagi
nation' (Balibar 1994: 27). These concatenations of affect and images are not the product of consciousness but rather produce it as 'an inadequate knowledge of our corporeal multiplicity'. Self-consciousness is inseparable from desire, joy and sadness, fea
r and hope. Here the constitution of individuality and the constitution of the imagining of 'the multitude' are one and the same process - fundamentally a process of imitation of affects. The object of Spinoza's concern is the process or the network of the
 circulation of affects and ideas' (Balibar 1994: 33). Relations of communication of affect between human individuals are here subsidiary to the relations of communication between the affects themselves. In this way affective communication is the very conc
ept of 'the mass'. 66}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f4 Affects are continuously circulated between individuals, reinforced and intensified through communication. In this complex affective network the imagination of freedom plays a crucial role. Within the circulation of affects and images grounded in powers of
 bodies which are both similar and dissimilar to one another, isolation can only be a fiction. But the fiction of self-contained independence makes us imagine others as 'free' sources of our joys and pains. 68}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f4 Within this complex array of bodily modifications, some relate to the impingement of other bodies here and now; others derive from past collisions and collusions of bodies. 76}
\par \pard\plain \s2\sa120\cf1\rtlch\lang255\ltrch\dbch\langfe1033\loch\f4\lang255\cbpat2\chcbpat2 {\ltrch\loch\f4 The awareness of human collectivities - the awareness of bodies in relation - is not a merely cognitive awareness of bodily change. It is shot  through with emotion - with the awareness of bodily transition to greater or lesser states of activity. Sociabil
ity is inherently affective. The incorporation into collectivities which determines our individuality involves affective imitation - dynamic movements of emotional identification and appropriation. 77}
\par \pard\plain \s2\sa120\cf1\rtlch\lang255\ltrch\dbch\langfe1033\loch\f4\lang255 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par }