{\rtf1\ansi\deff1\adeflang1025
{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fprq2\fcharset0 Nimbus Roman No9 L;}{\f1\fnil\fprq0\fcharset0 Trebuchet MS;}{\f2\fnil\fprq0\fcharset0 Trebuchet MS;}{\f3\fnil\fprq0\fcharset0 Arial;}{\f4\fnil\fprq2\fcharset0 Luxi Sans;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;}
{\stylesheet{\s1\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af4\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af4\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033\snext1 Default;}
{\s2\sa120\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af4\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af4\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033\sbasedon1\snext2 Text body;}
{\s3\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af4\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af4\afs24\langfe255\loch\fs24\lang1033\sbasedon2\snext3 List;}
{\s4\sb120\sa120\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af4\afs20\lang255\ai\ltrch\dbch\af4\afs20\langfe255\ai\loch\fs20\lang1033\i\sbasedon1\snext4 Caption;}
{\s5\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af4\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af4\afs24\langfe255\loch\fs24\lang1033\sbasedon1\snext5 Index;}
}
{\info{\creatim\yr2004\mo5\dy7\hr9\min37}{\revtim\yr2004\mo5\dy7\hr9\min39}{\printim\yr1601\mo1\dy1\hr0\min0}{\comment StarWriter}{\vern6450}}\deftab709
{\*\pgdsctbl
{\pgdsc0\pgdscuse195\pgwsxn11905\pghsxn16837\marglsxn1134\margrsxn1134\margtsxn1134\margbsxn1134\pgdscnxt0 Default;}}
\paperh16837\paperw11905\margl1134\margr1134\margt1134\margb1134\sectd\sbknone\pgwsxn11905\pghsxn16837\marglsxn1134\margrsxn1134\margtsxn1134\margbsxn1134\ftnbj\ftnstart1\ftnrstcont\ftnnar\aenddoc\aftnrstcont\aftnstart1\aftnnrlc
\pard\plain \ltrpar\s1\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af3\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af3\afs24\langfe255\loch\f3\fs24\lang1033 {\loch\f3\fs24\lang1033\i0\b0 Graham, S. and S. Marvin (2001). {\ul Splintering urbanism : networked infrastructures, technological}. London, Routledge.}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s1\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af3\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af3\afs24\langfe255\loch\f3\fs24\lang1033 {\loch\f3\fs24\lang1033\i0\b0 A critical focus on networked infrastructure \endash  transport, telecommunications, energy, water and streets \endash  offers up a powerful and dynamic way of seeing contemporary cities and urban regions. ... When our analytical focus centres on how the wires, ducts, t
unnels, conduits, streets, highways and technical networks that interlace and infuse cities are constructed and used, modern urbanism emerges as an extraordinarily complex and dynamic sociotechnical {\i process. }{\i0  Contemporary urban life is revealed as a ceasel
ess and mobile interplay between many different scales, from the body to the globe. Such mobile interactions across distances and between scales, mediated by telecommunications, transport, energy and water networks, are the driving connective forces of muc
h-debated processes of 'globalisation'. (8)}}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s1\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af3\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af3\afs24\langfe255\loch\f3\fs24\lang1033 {\loch\f3\fs24\lang1033\i0\b0 How, then, can we imagine the massive technical systems that interlace, infuse and underpin cities and urban life? (8)}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s1\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af3\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af3\afs24\langfe255\loch\f3\fs24\lang1033 {\loch\f3\fs24\lang1033\i0\b0 In a sense, then, the life and flux of cities and urban life can be considered to be what we might call a series of closely related 'sociotechnical processes'. These are the very essence of modernity: people and institutions enrol enormously complex techno
logical systems (of which they often know very little) to extend unevenly their actions in time and space (10).}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s1\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af3\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af3\afs24\langfe255\loch\f3\fs24\lang1033 {\loch\f3\fs24\lang1033\i0\b0 Finally, infrastructure networks, and the sociotechnical processes that surround them, are strongly involved in structuring and delineating the experiences of urban culture and what Raymond Williams (1973) termed the 'structures of feeling' of modern urban
 life. }
\par }