{\rtf1\ansi\deff1\adeflang1025
{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fprq2\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fnil\fprq0\fcharset0 Trebuchet MS;}{\f2\fnil\fprq0\fcharset0 Trebuchet MS;}{\f3\fnil\fprq2\fcharset0 Tahoma;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;}
{\stylesheet{\s1\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af3\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af3\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\snext1 Default;}
{\s2\sa120\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af3\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af3\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\sbasedon1\snext2 Text body;}
{\s3\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af3\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af3\afs24\langfe255\loch\fs24\lang2057\sbasedon2\snext3 List;}
{\s4\sb120\sa120\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af3\afs20\lang255\ai\ltrch\dbch\af3\afs20\langfe255\ai\loch\fs20\lang2057\i\sbasedon1\snext4 Caption;}
{\s5\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af3\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af3\afs24\langfe255\loch\fs24\lang2057\sbasedon1\snext5 Index;}
}
{\info{\creatim\yr2005\mo7\dy18\hr11\min52}{\revtim\yr2005\mo7\dy18\hr11\min59}{\printim\yr1601\mo1\dy1\hr0\min0}{\comment StarWriter}{\vern6450}}\deftab709
{\*\pgdsctbl
{\pgdsc0\pgdscuse195\pgwsxn11905\pghsxn16837\marglsxn1134\margrsxn1134\margtsxn1134\margbsxn1134\pgdscnxt0 Default;}}
\paperh16837\paperw11905\margl1134\margr1134\margt1134\margb1134\sectd\sbknone\pgwsxn11905\pghsxn16837\marglsxn1134\margrsxn1134\margtsxn1134\margbsxn1134\ftnbj\ftnstart1\ftnrstcont\ftnnar\aenddoc\aftnrstcont\aftnstart1\aftnnrlc
\pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\rtlch\af3\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af3\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057 {\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 \{Grosz, 2004 #711\}}
\par {\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 Grosz, E. (2004). {\ul The Nick of Time. Politics, Evolution and the Untimely}. Crows Nest, Allen & Unwin.}
\par {\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 What I explore in the pages that follow are philosophical models that underlies and can be extracted from much biological, particularly evolutionary, research. 3}
\par {\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 Darwin creates a real committed to a concept of temporal becoming. He creates a science in which history, and thus the eruption of unexpected evens, is central, in which  life is focused on and a response to local and global events, which are always unique
 and unrepeatable, which defy precise causal explanation, and which can provide explanation only at a certain level of generality. 8}
\par {\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 his account of the development of the species, including the descent of man, provides a powerful and fundamentally plausible and suitably complex understanding both of the genesis of (primitive) life from the complexites of matter and of the growing elabor
ation, adaptation, and specialization of organisms to their stable or changing life conditions. 19}
\par {\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 While presenting an ontology of life, Darwin also provokes a concern with the possibilities of becoming, and becoming-other, inherent in culture, which are also the basic concerns of feminist and other political and social activitists. 19-20}
\par {\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 Darwin's work, if it is relevant at all to the humanities and social sciences, is not only a theory of biological development but aslo a theory of cultural, social, and political development. What Darwin's work makes clear is that what has occurred to an i
ndividual in the operations of a milieu or environment (it matters little here if it is natural or cultural) is the force or impetus that propels that individual to processes of self-transformation through his or her sexual relations and his or here relati
ons of inventive survival in a world of tension and competitiion, and that propels groups, variants, and species to their self-overcoming through their accommodation to natural selection. 89}
\par }