{\rtf1\ansi\deff1\adeflang1025
{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fprq2\fcharset0 Nimbus Roman No9 L{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f1\froman\fprq2\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fnil\fprq0\fcharset0 Trebuchet MS;}{\f3\fnil\fprq0\fcharset0 Arial;}{\f4\froman\fprq2\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}{\f5\fswiss\fprq2\fcharset0 Arial;}{\f6\fnil\fprq0\fcharset0 Trebuchet MS;}{\f7\fnil\fprq0\fcharset0 MS Mincho;}{\f8\fnil\fprq2\fcharset0 Lucida Sans Unicode;}{\f9\fnil\fprq0\fcharset0 Arial Unicode MS;}{\f10\fnil\fprq2\fcharset0 Tahoma;}{\f11\fnil\fprq0\fcharset0 Tahoma;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;}
{\stylesheet{\s1\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\langfe2052\hich\fs24\lang2057\loch\fs24\lang2057\snext1 Normal;}
{\s2\sb240\sa120\keepn\rtlch\af10\afs28\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af7\langfe255\hich\f5\fs28\lang2057\loch\f5\fs28\lang2057\sbasedon1\snext3 Heading;}
{\s3\sa120\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\langfe255\hich\fs24\lang2057\loch\fs24\lang2057\sbasedon1\snext3 Body Text;}
{\s4\rtlch\af11\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\langfe255\hich\fs24\lang2057\loch\fs24\lang2057\sbasedon7\snext4 List;}
{\s5\sb120\sa120\rtlch\afs20\lang255\ai\ltrch\dbch\langfe2052\hich\f2\fs20\lang2057\i\loch\f2\fs20\lang2057\i\sbasedon1\snext5 caption;}
{\s6\rtlch\af11\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\langfe2052\hich\fs24\lang2057\loch\fs24\lang2057\sbasedon8\snext6 Index;}
{\s7\sa120\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\langfe2052\hich\fs24\lang2057\loch\fs24\lang2057\sbasedon8\snext7 Body Text;}
{\s8\rtlch\af10\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af8\langfe255\hich\fs24\lang1033\loch\fs24\lang1033\sbasedon1\snext8 Normal;}
{\s9\sb120\sa120\rtlch\afs20\lang255\ai\ltrch\dbch\langfe2052\hich\f6\fs20\lang2057\i\loch\f6\fs20\lang2057\i\sbasedon1\snext9 caption;}
{\s10\sb120\sa120\rtlch\af11\afs20\lang255\ai\ltrch\dbch\af9\langfe255\hich\f6\fs20\lang2057\i\loch\f6\fs20\lang2057\i\sbasedon1\snext10 WW-caption;}
{\s11\sb120\sa120\rtlch\af11\afs20\lang255\ai\ltrch\dbch\af1\langfe2052\hich\fs20\lang2057\i\loch\fs20\lang2057\i\sbasedon8\snext11 WW-caption1;}
}
{\info{\creatim\yr2006\mo3\dy20\hr15\min16}{\revtim\yr1601\mo1\dy1\hr0\min0}{\printim\yr1601\mo1\dy1\hr0\min0}{\comment StarWriter}{\vern6800}}\deftab709
{\*\pgdsctbl
{\pgdsc0\pgdscuse195\pgwsxn11905\pghsxn16837\marglsxn1134\margrsxn1134\margtsxn1134\margbsxn1134\pgdscnxt0 Standard;}}
{\*\pgdscno0}\paperh16837\paperw11905\margl1134\margr1134\margt1134\margb1134\sectd\sbknone\pgwsxn11905\pghsxn16837\marglsxn1134\margrsxn1134\margtsxn1134\margbsxn1134\ftnbj\ftnstart1\ftnrstcont\ftnnar\aenddoc\aftnrstcont\aftnstart1\aftnnrlc
\pard\plain \ltrpar\s7\sa120\ql\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\langfe2052\hich\fs24\lang1033\loch\fs24\lang1033 {\rtlch \ltrch\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033\i0\b0 \{Hansen, 2004 #685\}}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s7\sa120\ql\rtlch\af3\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af3\langfe2052\hich\f3\fs24\lang1033\loch\f3\fs24\lang1033 {\rtlch \ltrch\loch\f3\fs24\lang1033\i0\b0 Hansen, Mark B. N. 2004. {\i New Philosophy for New Media}. Cambridge, MA & London: The MIT Press.}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s7\sa120\ql\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\langfe2052\hich\fs24\lang1033\loch\fs24\lang1033 {\rtlch \ltrch\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033\i0\b0 Insofar as the sensorimotor nexus of the body opens it to its own indeterminacy, it is directly responsible for the body's constitutive excess over itself. In this respect, motion functions as the concrete trigger of affection as an active modality of bodi
ly action. 7}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s7\sa120\ql\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\langfe2052\hich\fs24\lang1033\loch\fs24\lang1033 {\rtlch \ltrch\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033\i0\b0 Rather, the image becomes a merely contingent configuration of numerical values that can be subjected to \'93molecular\'94 modification, that lacks any motivated relation to any image-to-follow, and indeed that always already contains all potential images-to-fol
low as permutations of the set of its \'93elementary\'94 numerical points. 8}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s7\sa120\ql\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\langfe2052\hich\fs24\lang1033\loch\fs24\lang1033 {\rtlch \ltrch\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033\i0\b0 In sum, the image can no longer be restricted to the level of surface appearance, but must be extended to include the entire process by which information is made perceivable through embodied experience. 9}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s7\sa120\ql\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\langfe2052\hich\fs24\lang1033\loch\fs24\lang1033 {\rtlch \ltrch\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033\i0\b0 No matter how \'93black-boxed\'94 an image technology (or technical frame) may seem, there will always have been embodied perception at/as its origin. 9 }
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s7\sa120\ql\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\langfe2052\hich\fs24\lang1033\loch\fs24\lang1033 {\rtlch \ltrch\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033\i0\b0 [W]e must accept that the image, rather than finding instantiation in a privileged technical form (including the computer interface), now demarcates the very process through which the body, in conjunction with various apparatuses for rendering information 
perceptible, gives form to or {\i in-forms } information. 10}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s7\sa120\ql\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\langfe2052\hich\fs24\lang1033\loch\fs24\lang1033 {\rtlch \ltrch\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033\i0\b0 [R]ather than selecting preexistent {\i images, }the body now operates by filtering {\i information } directly and, through this process, {\i creating }images. 11}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s7\sa120\ql\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\langfe2052\hich\fs24\lang1033\loch\fs24\lang1033 
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s7\sa120\ql\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\langfe2052\hich\fs24\lang1033\loch\fs24\lang1033 {\rtlch \ltrch\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033\i0\b0 This means that with the flexibility brought by digitization, {\i  there occurs a displacement of the framing function of media interfaces back onto the body from which they themselves originally sprang. }22}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s7\sa120\ql\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\langfe2052\hich\fs24\lang1033\loch\fs24\lang1033 {\rtlch \ltrch\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033\i0\b0 Viewed in this way, the digital era and the phenomenon of digitization itself can be understood as demarcating a shift in the correlation of two terms: media and body. Simply put, as media lose their material specificity, the body takes on a more prominent
 function as a selective processor of information. 22}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s7\sa120\ql\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\langfe2052\hich\fs24\lang1033\loch\fs24\lang1033 {\rtlch \ltrch\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033\i0\b0 putting the body to work (even in quite minimal ways) has the effect of conferring reality on an experience, of catalyzing the creation of a singular affective experience, that is, one that is qualitatively different from (but that can be deployed to {\i suppl
ement}) the \'93verisimilitude\'94 or \'93illusion\'94 of the cinematic image. 39}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s7\sa120\ql\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\langfe2052\hich\fs24\lang1033\loch\fs24\lang1033 {\rtlch \ltrch\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033\i0\b0 Rather than marking the obsolescence of framing as such ... the flexibility constitutive of  digital images operates a modification of the time-image, a new mode of framing or the actualizing of the virtual: specifically, it resituates the source of the vi
rtual from the interstices between (series of) images to interstices {\i within } the image itself. In a sense, it {\i incorporates }the virtual within the actual, making the image the source of an infinite number of potential alternate framings \'96 a limitless genera
tion of other images from any part of itself. 75}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s7\sa120\ql\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\langfe2052\hich\fs24\lang1033\loch\fs24\lang1033 {\rtlch \ltrch\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033\i0\b0 Since technical circuits and images are nothing but concrete actualizations of a transpatial equipotentiality, they are necessarily infused with specific affective tonalities and thus with irreducible \'93traces\'94 of human embodiment. 85}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s7\sa120\ql\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\langfe2052\hich\fs24\lang1033\loch\fs24\lang1033 {\rtlch \ltrch\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033\i0\b0 Just as it is embodied reception that introduces meaning into information, it is the transpatial axiological synthesis that virtualizes the digital infrastructure, transformings its merely formal or abstract permutations into a host of potentially meaningf
ul \'93messages\'94 - messages capable of triggering the creative force of bodily affectivity. 91}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s7\sa120\ql\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\langfe2052\hich\fs24\lang1033\loch\fs24\lang1033 {\rtlch \ltrch\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033\i0\b0 [M]achinic processes have fundamentally altered the infrastructure of our contemporary lifeworld in ways that directly impact our embodied experience. 236}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s7\sa120\ql\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\langfe2052\hich\fs24\lang1033\loch\fs24\lang1033 {\rtlch \ltrch\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033\i0\b0 Varela's account furnishes the mechanism for machine time to affect time-consciousness:as constitutive elements of what we might call a microphysical temporal object, the elementary events (at the 1/10 scale) of a machinic event, which are subperceptual, c
an trigger neural processes at this same microphysical scale, which are themselves likewise subperceptual. 251}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s7\sa120\ql\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\langfe2052\hich\fs24\lang1033\loch\fs24\lang1033 
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s7\sa120\ql\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\langfe2052\hich\fs24\lang1033\loch\fs24\lang1033 {\rtlch \ltrch\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033\i0\b0 [M]achine time can, in some sense, be said {\i to enlarge the frame of the now itself. }For if the exposure to machine time functions to stimulate neural dynamics and ultimately to trigger the emergence of new \'93nows,\'94 then it might legitimately be said to conta
minate the now with \'93elementary elements\'94 that are properly inhuman. 252}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s7\sa120\ql\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\langfe2052\hich\fs24\lang1033\loch\fs24\lang1033 {\rtlch \ltrch\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033\i0\b0 As a process that is properly subperceptual, the constitution of a temporal object from microphysical machinic fluxes furnishes time-consciousness with a \'93content\'94 that is not given \'96 and that in principle cannot be given \'96 by an impression. }
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s7\sa120\ql\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\langfe2052\hich\fs24\lang1033\loch\fs24\lang1033 
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s7\sa120\ql\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\langfe2052\hich\fs24\lang1033\loch\fs24\lang1033 
\par }