{\rtf1\ansi\deff1\adeflang1025
{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fprq2\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fnil\fprq0\fcharset0 Trebuchet MS;}{\f2\fnil\fprq0\fcharset0 Trebuchet MS;}{\f3\fnil\fprq2\fcharset0 Tahoma;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;}
{\stylesheet{\s1\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af3\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af3\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\snext1 Default;}
{\s2\sa120\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af3\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af3\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\sbasedon1\snext2 Text body;}
{\s3\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af3\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af3\afs24\langfe255\loch\fs24\lang2057\sbasedon2\snext3 List;}
{\s4\sb120\sa120\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af3\afs20\lang255\ai\ltrch\dbch\af3\afs20\langfe255\ai\loch\fs20\lang2057\i\sbasedon1\snext4 Caption;}
{\s5\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af3\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af3\afs24\langfe255\loch\fs24\lang2057\sbasedon1\snext5 Index;}
}
{\info{\creatim\yr2005\mo7\dy29\hr14\min34}{\revtim\yr2005\mo7\dy29\hr14\min35}{\printim\yr1601\mo1\dy1\hr0\min0}{\comment StarWriter}{\vern6450}}\deftab709
{\*\pgdsctbl
{\pgdsc0\pgdscuse195\pgwsxn11905\pghsxn16837\marglsxn1134\margrsxn1134\margtsxn1134\margbsxn1134\pgdscnxt0 Default;}}
\paperh16837\paperw11905\margl1134\margr1134\margt1134\margb1134\sectd\sbknone\pgwsxn11905\pghsxn16837\marglsxn1134\margrsxn1134\margtsxn1134\margbsxn1134\ftnbj\ftnstart1\ftnrstcont\ftnnar\aenddoc\aftnrstcont\aftnstart1\aftnnrlc
\pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\rtlch\af3\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af3\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057 {\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 \{Haraway, 2003 #716\}}
\par {\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 Haraway, Donna. {\ul The Companion Species Manifesto: Dogs, People and Significant Otherness}. Chicago: Prickly Paradigm Press, 2003.}
\par {\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 The practices and actors in dogs world, human and non-human alike, ought to be central concerns of technoscience studies. 3}
\par {\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 Dogs are not surrogates for theory; they are not here just to think with. They are here to live with. 5}
\par {\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 Instructed by evolutionary population biologists and bioanthropologists, I know that multidirectional gene flow \endash  multidirectional flows of bodies and values- is and always has been the name of the game of life on earth. 9}
\par {\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 Co-evolution has to be defined more broadly than biologists habitually do. ... But it is a mistake to see the alterations of dogs' bodies and minds as biological and the changes in human bodies and lives, for example in the emergence of herding or agricult
ural societies, as cultural, and so not about co-evolution. At the least, I suspect that human genomes contain a considerable molecular record of the pathogens of their companion species, including dogs. 31}
\par {\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 I am heartened by recent ideas in ecological developmental biology. ... Developmental triggers and timing are the key objects for this young science made possible by new molecular techniques and by discursive resources from many disciplines. 31-32}
\par {\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 In my own personal-historical naturecultres, I know in my flesh that the largely middle-class, white people of Pyr and Aussie land have an as yet unarticulated responsibility to participate in re-imagining grasslands ecologies and ways of life that were bl
asted in significant part by the very racnhing practices that required the work of these dogs. 97}
\par {\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 Co-constitutive companion spacies and co-evolution are the rule, not the exception. These arguments are tropic for my manifesto, but flesh and figure are not far apart. Tropes are what make us want to look and need to listen for surprises that get us out o
f inherited boxes. 32}
\par {\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 Through their dogs, people like me are tied to indigenous sovereignty rights, ranching economic and ecological survival, radical reform of the meat-industrial complex, racial justice, the consequences of war and migration, and the institutions of technoloc
ulture. 97-98.}
\par {\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 To do biology with any kind of fidelity, the practitioner {\i must }{\i0 tell a story, }{\i must }{\i0 get the facts, and }{\i must }{\i0  have the heart to stay hungry for the truth and to abandon a favorite story, a favorite fact, shown to be somehow off the mark. 19}}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\rtlch\af3\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af3\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057 {\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 The world is a knot in motion. Biological and cultural determinism are both instances of misplace concretenss \endash  i.e., the mistake of, first, taking provisional and local category abstractions like \ldblquote nature\rdblquote  and \ldblquote culture\rdblquote  for the world and, second, mistaking
 potent consequences to be preexisting foundations. 6}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\rtlch\af3\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af3\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057 
\par }