{\rtf1\ansi\deff1\adeflang1025
{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fprq2\fcharset0 Times New Roman{\*\falt Thorndale};}{\f1\fnil\fprq0\fcharset0 Arial;}{\f2\fnil\fprq0\fcharset0 Trebuchet MS;}{\f3\fnil\fprq0\fcharset0 Lucidux Sans;}{\f4\fswiss\fprq2\fcharset0 Trebuchet MS;}{\f5\fnil\fprq0\fcharset0 Arial;}{\f6\fnil\fprq2\fcharset0 HG Mincho Light J;}{\f7\fnil\fprq2\fcharset0 Arial Unicode MS;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;}
{\stylesheet{\s1\cf1{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe1033\loch\f1\fs24\lang255\snext1 Default;}
{\s2\sa120\cf1{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe1033\loch\f1\fs24\lang255\sbasedon1\snext2 Text body;}
{\s3\sa120\cf1{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe1033\loch\f2\fs24\lang255\sbasedon2\snext3 List;}
{\s4\sb120\sa120\cf1{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af1\afs20\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs20\langfe1033\loch\f2\fs20\lang255\i\sbasedon1\snext4 Caption;}
{\s5\cf1{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe1033\loch\f2\fs24\lang255\sbasedon1\snext5 Index;}
{\s6\sb240\sa120\keepn\cf1{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af7\afs28\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af6\afs28\langfe1033\loch\f3\fs28\lang255\sbasedon1\snext2 Heading;}
}
{\info{\comment StarWriter}{\vern6410}}\deftab720
{\*\pgdsctbl
{\pgdsc0\pgdscuse195\pgwsxn11905\pghsxn16837\marglsxn1134\margrsxn1134\margtsxn1134\margbsxn1134\pgdscnxt0 Default;}}
\paperh16837\paperw11905\margl1134\margr1134\margt1134\margb1134\sectd\sbknone\pgwsxn11905\pghsxn16837\marglsxn1134\margrsxn1134\margtsxn1134\margbsxn1134\ftnbj\ftnstart1\ftnrstcont\ftnnar\aenddoc\aftnrstcont\aftnstart1\aftnnrlc
\pard\plain \s2\sa120\cf1{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe1033\loch\f1\fs24\lang255\ltrch\loch\f4 {\ltrch\loch\f4 Michael Hardt and Antonio Negri, {\i Empire} Harvard University Press Cambridge, Massachusetts London, England, 2000}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f4 Communication not only expresses but also organizes the movement of globalization. It organizes the movement by multiplying and structuring interconnections through networks. It expresses the movement and controls the sense and direction of the imaginary t
hat runs throughout these communicative connections; in other words, the imaginary is guided and channeled within the communicative machine. What the theories of power of modernity were forced to consider transcendent, that is, external to productive and s
ocial relations, is here formed inside, immanent to the productive and social relations. Mediation is absorbed within the productive machine. The political synthesis of social space is fixed in the space of communications. This is why communications indust
ries have assumed such a central position. They not only organize production on a new scale and impose a new structure adequate to global space, but also make its justification immanent. 33}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f4 If communication is one of the hegemonic sectors of production and acts over the entire biopolitical field, then we must consider communication and the biopolitical context coexistent. 33}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f4 The anthropological metamorphoses of bodies are established through the common experience of labor and the new technologies that have constitutive effects and ontological implications. Tools have always functioned as human prostheses, integrated into our b
odies through our laboring practices as a kind of anthropological mutation both in individual terms and in terms of collective sociality. The contemporary form of exodus and the new barbarian life demand that tools become polemic prostheses, liberating us 
from the conditions of modern humanity. 217}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f4 The novelty of the new information infrastructure is the fact that it is embedded within and completely immanent to the new production processes. At the pinnacle of contemporary production, information and communication are the very commodities produced; t
he network itself is the site of both production and circulation. 298}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f4 The hybridization of human and machine is no longer a process that takes place only on the margins of society; rather, it is a fundamental episode at the center of the constitution of the multitude and its power 405}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f4 The subjectivity of living labor reveals, simply and directly in the struggle over the senses of language and technology, that when one speaks of a collective means of the constitution of a new world, one is speaking of the connection between the power of 
life and its political organization. The political, the social, the economic, and the vital here all dwell together. They are entirely interrelated and completely interchangeable. 405-6}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f4 The contemporary systems of communication are not subordinated to sovereignity; on the contrary, sovereignity seems to be subordinated to communication-or actually, sovereignity is articulated through communications systems. 346}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f4 In short, we can distinguish three types of immaterial labor that drive the service sector at the top of the informational economy. The first is involved in an industrial production that has been informationalized and has incorporated communication technol
ogies in a way that transforms the production process itself. Manufacturing is regarded as a service, and the material labor of the production of durable goods mixes with and tends toward immaterial labor. Second is the immaterial labor of analytical and s
ymbolical tasks, which itself breaks down into creative and intelligent manipulation on the one hand and routine symbolic tasks on the other. Finally, a third type of immaterial labor involves the production and manipulation of affect and requires (virtual
 or actual) human contact, labor in the bodily mode. 293}
\par }