{\rtf1\ansi\deff1\adeflang1025
{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fprq2\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fswiss\fprq0\fcharset0 Arial;}{\f2\fnil\fprq0\fcharset0 Palatino Linotype;}{\f3\fswiss\fprq0\fcharset0 Arial;}{\f4\fnil\fprq0\fcharset0 Trebuchet MS;}{\f5\fswiss\fprq2\fcharset0 Arial;}{\f6\fnil\fprq0\fcharset0 Arial;}{\f7\fnil\fprq0\fcharset0 Arial Unicode MS;}{\f8\fnil\fprq0\fcharset0 MS Mincho;}{\f9\fnil\fprq0\fcharset0 Tahoma;}{\f10\fnil\fprq2\fcharset0 Tahoma;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;}
{\stylesheet{\s1\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\langfe2057\hich\fs24\lang2057\loch\fs24\lang2057\snext1 Normal;}
{\s2\sa120\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\langfe2057\hich\fs24\lang2057\loch\fs24\lang2057\sbasedon1\snext2 Body Text;}
{\s3\sa120\rtlch\af9\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af7\langfe2057\hich\f4\fs24\lang2057\loch\f4\fs24\lang2057\sbasedon2\snext3 List;}
{\s4\sb120\sa120\rtlch\af9\afs20\lang255\ai\ltrch\dbch\langfe2057\hich\f2\fs20\lang2057\i\loch\f2\fs20\lang2057\i\sbasedon1\snext4 caption;}
{\s5\rtlch\af9\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af7\langfe2057\hich\f4\fs24\lang2057\loch\f4\fs24\lang2057\sbasedon1\snext5 Index;}
{\s6\sb120\sa120\rtlch\af9\afs20\lang255\ai\ltrch\dbch\af7\langfe2057\hich\f4\fs20\lang2057\i\loch\f4\fs20\lang2057\i\sbasedon1\snext6 caption;}
{\s7\sb240\sa120\keepn\rtlch\af10\afs28\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af8\langfe2057\hich\f5\fs28\lang2057\loch\f5\fs28\lang2057\sbasedon1\snext2 Heading;}
}
{\info{\creatim\yr2005\mo10\dy13\hr10\min5}{\revtim\yr1601\mo1\dy1\hr0\min0}{\printim\yr1601\mo1\dy1\hr0\min0}{\comment StarWriter}{\vern6800}}\deftab720
{\*\pgdsctbl
{\pgdsc0\pgdscuse195\pgwsxn12240\pghsxn15840\marglsxn1800\margrsxn1800\margtsxn1440\margbsxn1440\pgdscnxt0 Standard;}}
{\*\pgdscno0}\paperh15840\paperw12240\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\sectd\sbknone\pgwsxn12240\pghsxn15840\marglsxn1800\margrsxn1800\margtsxn1440\margbsxn1440\ftnbj\ftnstart1\ftnrstcont\ftnnar\aenddoc\aftnrstcont\aftnstart1\aftnnrlc
\pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\sa120\ql\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\langfe2057\hich\fs24\lang2057\loch\fs24\lang2057 {\rtlch \ltrch\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 \{Hassan, 2004 #724\}}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\sa120\ql\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\langfe2057\hich\f6\fs24\lang2057\loch\f6\fs24\lang2057 {\rtlch \ltrch\loch\f6\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 Hassan, Robert. 2004. {\i Media, politics and the network society}, {\i Issues in cultural and media studies}. Maidenhead: Open University Press.}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\sa120\ql\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\langfe2057\hich\fs24\lang2057\loch\fs24\lang2057 
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\sa120\ql\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\langfe2057\hich\fs24\lang2057\loch\fs24\lang2057 {\rtlch \ltrch\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 Thus the interactions between media and culture within the network society require a reconceptualization, a gearshift up to a new plane of theorization that is able to incorporate the new dynamics of temporal acceleration, of globalisations, of neoliberal 
capitalism and of the ICT revolution itself. 41}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\sa120\ql\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\langfe2057\hich\fs24\lang2057\loch\fs24\lang2057 {\rtlch \ltrch\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 Moreover, cultural competency {\i vis-a-vis\~}{ the media and its offferings allowed people to develop a degree of {\b media savvy, }}{\b{\i  }}{\i{{\b0 a media literacy  }}}{{\i0 that stemmed from a certain level of autonomy and distance from the media itself. 43}}}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\sa120\ql\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\langfe2057\hich\fs24\lang2057\loch\fs24\lang2057 {\rtlch \ltrch\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 Much of this chapter has looked at media and culture as 'spaces' that interact to form and shape each other within the context of a mass media society. 47}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\sa120\ql\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\langfe2057\hich\fs24\lang2057\loch\fs24\lang2057 {\rtlch \ltrch\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 [T]he 'spaces' of media and culture that interact and enable the production of both diverse cultures and a cultural competence {\i vis-a-vis} the media are {\i disappearing } due to the suffusion of the processes of informationization into the deepest realms of soci
ety. 47}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\sa120\ql\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\langfe2057\hich\fs24\lang2057\loch\fs24\lang2057 {\rtlch \ltrch\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 As the network society becomes more and more all-encompassing then so also does the operation of the media-culture dialectic diminish. There are simply fewer  'spaces' and less 'distance' for it to operate as it once did. 50}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\sa120\ql\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\langfe2057\hich\fs24\lang2057\loch\fs24\lang2057 {\rtlch \ltrch\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 The media savvy that people were able to develop through the application of Fiske's 'cultural competencies', the skill of discernment fashioned through a critical distance, is being replaced by a '{\b techno savvy' } that contains no critical distance 52}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\sa120\ql\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\langfe2057\hich\fs24\lang2057\loch\fs24\lang2057 {\rtlch \ltrch\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 Such inattention to a critique of the network will simply drive the economy, culture and society into yet more dependency upon ICTs and market forces. It will bury the democratic rights and obligations of people under the weight and pressure of more inform
ation, more automation, more risk and uncertainty and an ever-quickening pace of life. 78}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\sa120\ql\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\langfe2057\hich\fs24\lang2057\loch\fs24\lang2057 {\rtlch \ltrch\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 The spaces 'outside'  the logic of information technologies and the network society they have created are vanishing in direct proportion to the digitalization of the world  ... The pre-digital spaces of culture and media were also spaces in which identity 
(individual and collective) could be constructed. 88}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\sa120\ql\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\langfe2057\hich\fs24\lang2057\loch\fs24\lang2057 {\rtlch \ltrch\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 However, the more we are connected within the particular structures of neoliberal capitalism, the more tightly we extend ourselves over time and space. Personal and collective sovereignty with that time and space is being correspondingly reduced with each 
new connection, each increase in speed. 89}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\sa120\ql\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\langfe2057\hich\fs24\lang2057\loch\fs24\lang2057 {\rtlch \ltrch\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 We need to rediscover and reinforce the currently diminished traditions and practices of critique and of a social, cultural and political imagination that has been marginalized by neoliberal instrumentalism. 99}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\sa120\ql\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\langfe2057\hich\fs24\lang2057\loch\fs24\lang2057 {\rtlch \ltrch\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 To be able to resist and to change neoliberalism, what is required is nothing less than the development of a whole new way of conducting politics and political struggle. 112}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\sa120\ql\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\langfe2057\hich\fs24\lang2057\loch\fs24\lang2057 {\rtlch \ltrch\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 As the global civil society movement has demonstrated, a new-style politics based upon a shared antipathy towards neoliberalism and held together in time and space by networks \'96 {\b technopolitics}- is now possible. 113}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\sa120\ql\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\langfe2057\hich\fs24\lang2057\loch\fs24\lang2057 {\rtlch \ltrch\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 It is here, in the chaos of where 'no one is in control', that new forms of technopolitics are being forged and that new ways of political organization are being tested, rejected, modified, developed and articulated. 116}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\sa120\ql\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\langfe2057\hich\fs24\lang2057\loch\fs24\lang2057 {\rtlch \ltrch\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 To connect a media savvy with a techno savvy,then, is to create the cultural competencies that comprise the basic survival kit for Life.com, as well as the weapons and tactics that can help change it. 124}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\sa120\ql\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\langfe2057\hich\fs24\lang2057\loch\fs24\lang2057 {\rtlch \ltrch\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 Fear and uncertainty are the business of neoliberal business 129}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\sa120\ql\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\langfe2057\hich\fs24\lang2057\loch\fs24\lang2057 {\rtlch \ltrch\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 In many ways food goes to the heart of neoliberal globalization. 132}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\sa120\ql\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\langfe2057\hich\fs24\lang2057\loch\fs24\lang2057 {\rtlch \ltrch\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 They constantly meld theory with practice to produce the new strateiges and tactics, art and literature, science and technologies that can help make this happen. 133}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\sa120\ql\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\langfe2057\hich\fs24\lang2057\loch\fs24\lang2057 {\rtlch \ltrch\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 The evidence of institutional sanguinity regarding mass political protest will become more evident in the years to come. 135}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\sa120\ql\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\langfe2057\hich\fs24\lang2057\loch\fs24\lang2057 {\rtlch \ltrch\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 An inestimable advantage for global civil society is that neoliberalism has a very ordinary and predictable vision for media, culture and society in Life.com. 136}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\sa120\ql\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\langfe2057\hich\fs24\lang2057\loch\fs24\lang2057 
\par }