
/home/mackenza/notes/barney_network_2004.md:The phrase 'network society' applies to societies that exhibit two fundamental characteristics. The first is the presence in those societies of sophisticated – almost exclusively digital – technologies of networked communication and information management/distribution, technologies which form the basic infrastructure mediating an increasing array of social, political and economic practices.  ... the second, arguably more intriguing, characteristic of network societies is the reproduction and institutionalization throughout (and between) those societies of networks  as the basic form of human organization and relationship across a wide range of social, political and economic configurations and associations. 26
/home/mackenza/notes/barney_network_2004.md:It is arguable that the penetration of network technologies into workplaces, sites of production, the infrastructure of global commerce and the practice of warfare – in a phrase, their use as technologies of systems control  - will ultimately be more important to the shape of the network society that their use as technologies of interpersonal and mass communication. 60
/home/mackenza/notes/bowker_info_mythology.md:This suggests the need for a general form of investigation, as follows. Take a claim that has been made by advocates of a particular piece of science/technology, then look at the infrastructural changes that preceded or accompanied the effects claimed and see if they are sufficient to explain those effects - then ask how the initial claim came a posteriori to be seen as reasonable. 235
/home/mackenza/notes/bowker_info_mythology.md:When we operate this infrastructural inversion, we can see that there is a clear link between the nature of the universe and the way to run a business. Information mythology is not an epiphenomenon generated out of thin, hot air: it describes an integral part of the economic process of ordering social and natural space and time so that subjective' information can circulate freely. The global statement that everything is information is not a preordained fact about the world, it becomes a fact as and when we make it so. 245
/home/mackenza/notes/bowker_info_mythology.md.md:This suggests the need for a general form of investigation, as follows. Take a claim that has been made by advocates of a particular piece of science/technology, then look at the infrastructural changes that preceded or accompanied the effects claimed and see if they are sufficient to explain those effects - then ask how the initial claim came a posteriori to be seen as reasonable. 235
/home/mackenza/notes/bowker_info_mythology.md.md:When we operate this infrastructural inversion, we can see that there is a clear link between the nature of the universe and the way to run a business. Information mythology is not an epiphenomenon generated out of thin, hot air: it describes an integral part of the economic process of ordering social and natural space and time so that subjective' information can circulate freely. The global statement that everything is information is not a preordained fact about the world, it becomes a fact as and when we make it so. 245
/home/mackenza/notes/bowker.md:This suggests the need for a general form of investigation, as follows. Take a claim that has been made by advocates of a particular piece of science/technology, then look at the infrastructural changes that preceded or accompanied the effects claimed and see if they are sufficient to explain those effects - then ask how the initial claim came a posteriori to be seen as reasonable. 235
/home/mackenza/notes/bowker.md:When we operate this infrastructural inversion, we can see that there is a clear link between the nature of the universe and the way to run a business. Information mythology is not an epiphenomenon generated out of thin, hot air: it describes an integral part of the economic process of ordering social and natural space and time so that subjective' information can circulate freely. The global statement that everything is information is not a preordained fact about the world, it becomes a fact as and when we make it so. 245
/home/mackenza/notes/bowker_second_nature.md:My argument will be that  by looking at infrastructural technology and organization we can discover a missing link between political economy (in the broadest sense of  the term, as the general form of the interaction between society and nature at a given epoch) and the representational time and space that came to be used across the board in bureaucratic work and in human and natural sciences.  (Bowker, 1995, 48)
/home/mackenza/notes/bowker_star_sorting_things.md:Infrastructures are never transparent for everyone, and their workability as they scale up becomes increasingly complex. Through due methodological attention to the architecture and use of these systems, we can achieve a deeper understanding of how individuals and communities meet infrastructure. (Bowker & Star, 1999, 33)
/home/mackenza/notes/bowker_star_sorting_things.md:In the past 100 years, people in all lines of work have jointly constructed an incredible, interlocking set of categories, standards, and means for interoperating infrastructural technologies. We hardly know what we have built. No one is in control of infrastructure; no one has the power centrally to change it. To the extent that we live in, on, and around this new infrastructure, it helps form the shape of our moral, scientific, and esthetic choices. Infrastructure is now the great inner space. (Bowker & Star, 1999, 319)
/home/mackenza/notes/bowker_star_sorting_things.md:As sets of classification systems coalesce into working infrastructures they become integrated into information systems of all sorts. ... [I]nformation systems design should be informed by organizational and political analysis at this level. Rather we have-along with many researchers in the field of social informatics-demonstrated empirically that invisible organizational structures influence the design and use of systems. (Bowker & Star, 1999, 323)
/home/mackenza/notes/bowker_star_sorting_things.md:Working infrastructures contain multiple classification systems that are both invisible, in the senses above, and ubiquitous. The invisibility of infrastructure makes visualization or description difficult. ... Our infrastructural metaphors show how baffled we often are by these systems. They are like undergarments or tunnel dwellers. (Bowker & Star, 1999, 232)
/home/mackenza/notes/bowker_star_sorting_things.md:It is politically and ethically crucial to recognize the vital role of infrastructure in the “built moral environment.” Seemingly purely technical issues like how to name things and how to store data in fact constitute much of what we have come to know as natural. (Bowker & Star, 1999, 326)
/home/mackenza/notes/castells_mobile_com_2005.md:Because the network grows incrementally with every new access point and every device capable of receiving Wi-Fi signals, there is no need for incentives to convince a monopoly provider to build expensive infrastructure. 102
/home/mackenza/notes/classification.md:﻿Knowledge and infrastructure in International information management Problems of classification and codings
/home/mackenza/notes/couldry_productive_consumer_2004.md:First, governments and other major players interested in influencing positively future forms of public connection should take seriously the impetus to technical and infrastructural innovation from the partial collapse of traditional frameworks of political and social connection. 28
/home/mackenza/notes/edwards_infrastructures_2003.md:If to be modern is to live within multiple, linked infrastructures, then it is also to inhabit and traverse multiple scales of force, time and social organization. 222
/home/mackenza/notes/empire .md:The novelty of the new information infrastructure is the fact that it is embedded within and completely immanent to the new production processes. At the pinnacle of contemporary production, information and communication are the very commodities produced; the network itself is the site of both production and circulation. 298
/home/mackenza/notes/graham_marvin_urbanism_2001.md:﻿Graham, S. and S. Marvin (2001). Splintering urbanism : networked infrastructures, technological. London, Routledge.
/home/mackenza/notes/graham_marvin_urbanism_2001.md:A critical focus on networked infrastructure – transport, telecommunications, energy, water and streets – offers up a powerful and dynamic way of seeing contemporary cities and urban regions. ... When our analytical focus centres on how the wires, ducts, tunnels, conduits, streets, highways and technical networks that interlace and infuse cities are constructed and used, modern urbanism emerges as an extraordinarily complex and dynamic sociotechnical process.  Contemporary urban life is revealed as a ceaseless and mobile interplay between many different scales, from the body to the globe. Such mobile interactions across distances and between scales, mediated by telecommunications, transport, energy and water networks, are the driving connective forces of much-debated processes of 'globalisation'. (8)
/home/mackenza/notes/graham_marvin_urbanism_2001.md:Finally, infrastructure networks, and the sociotechnical processes that surround them, are strongly involved in structuring and delineating the experiences of urban culture and what Raymond Williams (1973) termed the 'structures of feeling' of modern urban life. 
/home/mackenza/notes/graham_marvin_urbanism_2001.md:It argues that a parallel set of processes are under way within which infrastructure networks are being 'unbundled' in ways that help sustain the fragmentation of the social and material fabric of cities. Such a shift, which we label with the umbrella term splintering urbanism, requires a reconceptualisation of the relations between infrastructure services and the contemporary development of cities. 33
/home/mackenza/notes/graham_marvin_urbanism_2001.md:Much of the material and technological fabric of cities, then, is  networked infrastructure. At the same time, most of the infrastructural fabric is urban 'landscape' of various sorts. 13
/home/mackenza/notes/graham_premium_network_2003.md:Graham, Stephen. 2003. Constructing premium networks spaces. In Moving people, goods, and information : the cutting-edge infrastructures of networked cities, edited by R. Hanley. Routledge: New York.
/home/mackenza/notes/graham_premium_network_2003.md:[W]e are starting to see a renewed physical, social, political and discursive salience to urban networked infrastructured. In many cities and parts of cities in the “developed,” “developing,” “newly industrializing,” and “post socialist” worlds, infrastructure networks are being reproblematized. The “black boxes” surrounding them are being “re-opened.” Certain users are starting to look beyond the taken-for-granted point of consumption at the configuration of the whole socio-technical artifact that supports their mobility, communications, power and water needs. 227
/home/mackenza/notes/hansen_newmedia_2004.md:Just as it is embodied reception that introduces meaning into information, it is the transpatial axiological synthesis that virtualizes the digital infrastructure, transformings its merely formal or abstract permutations into a host of potentially meaningful “messages” - messages capable of triggering the creative force of bodily affectivity. 91
/home/mackenza/notes/hansen_newmedia_2004.md:[M]achinic processes have fundamentally altered the infrastructure of our contemporary lifeworld in ways that directly impact our embodied experience. 236
/home/mackenza/notes/hardt_negri_empire.md:The novelty of the new information infrastructure is the fact that it is embedded within and completely immanent to the new production processes. At the pinnacle of contemporary production, information and communication are the very commodities produced; the network itself is the site of both production and circulation. 298
/home/mackenza/notes/landecker_culturing_2007.md:Keeping an eye on practical, protocols, methods, technique, touch, or infrastructure provides access to the ways in which work on some life (nematodes, insects, yeast) reshapes human life by intorducting systematic change into biological existence. Perhaps more importantly, this methodological focus on genres of technique and infrastructures of research allows room for the vast realms of contemporary biological practical and biotechnological intervention that are not based directly on human matter or health or reproduction. 234
/home/mackenza/notes/latour_lepinay_tarde_2008.md:le lien des deux domaines ne passe pas par l’étape obligée de la recherche des forces cachées dans les infrastructures — comme nous allons le voir, il n’y a pas, pour Tarde, d’infrastructure du tout. Le lien des deux domaines est infiniment plus intime. Tarde compare deux modes de trajectoires et de contamination qui toutes deux, la première il y a plusieurs siècles, la seconde sous ses yeux, permet de repérer par quelle instrumentation, quels équipements l’on passe d’une quantification locale, individuelle et mal commode à une quantification généralisée, rapide et réflexive. 11
/home/mackenza/notes/latour_lepinay_tarde_2008.md:infrastructures matériels ? Mais Tarde n’inverse rien, puisqu’il n’y a pas, pour lui,
/home/mackenza/notes/latour_lepinay_tarde_2008.md:d’infrastructure ni de superstructure. Puisqu’il a préalablement redistribué les
/home/mackenza/notes/latour_lepinay_tarde_2008.md:Souvenons-nous que, pour lui, il n’y a pas d’infrastructure, pas d’automatisme, pas
/home/mackenza/notes/lee_lipuma.md:Production-driven competition harnessed  innovation as the integral mechanism for driving capital; a circulation-based capitalism harnesses technology for the extraction and manipulation of data that can then be converted into quantifiable measures of risk. The contemporary objectification, calculation, and distribution of risk rely on larger and more accurate data sets and increased computer power, all driven by competition among mathematically sophisticated quantitative experts. This is tightening the relation between technology and the "value-free" development of finance capital. These new information technologies demand a deep infrastructure of technology and talent, a development that is resulting in a global rush for technological training and education paralleling the expansion of global equity markets. 210
/home/mackenza/notes/maliq_abouhani_2005.md:Across Africa, a new urban infrastructure is being build with the very bodies and life stories of city residents, but what kind of city is being put together is not clear. This ambiguity is not only a reality that urban residents must face but also one which they must apparently instigate. 3
/home/mackenza/notes/maliq_abouhani_2005.md:This infrastructure is also temporal. What appears to be statsis, with nothing apparently accomplished, may actually be the highly intricate engineering of interactions among different events, actors and situations. In such occurrences, events actors and situations may ‘pass through’ each other and take notice of each without conditions actually changing. 3
/home/mackenza/notes/merleau_ponty_eye_mind.md:Even our most secret affective movements, those most deeply tied to the humoral infrastructure, help to shape our perception of things. 5
/home/mackenza/notes/mitchell_me++2003.md:Skeptics about wireless networks like to emphasize that wireless merely provides the last link in a telecommunication infrastructure that is, in fact, mostly wired. Furthermore, it is a relatively unreliable and inefficient link. They are right, but they completely miss the point. As these examples illustrate, for good or ill, continuous fields of presence provided by wireless networks can fundamentally alter patterns of resource availability and space use (147).
/home/mackenza/notes/ong_collier_global_2005.md:Global phenomena are not unrelated to social and cultural problems. But they have a distinctive capacity for decontextualisation and recontextualization, abstractability and movement, across diverse social and cultural situations and spheres of life. ... At the same time, the conditions of possibility of this movement are complex. Global forms are limited or delimited by specific technical infrastructures, administrative apparatuses, or value regimes, not by the vagaries of a social or cultural field. 11
/home/mackenza/notes/references_Converted.md:%T Im Namen von Geschichte : Sammeln, Speichern, Er/Zählen : infrastrukturelle Konfigurationen des deutschen Gedächtnisses
/home/mackenza/notes/references_Converted.md:%O Im Namen von Geschichte : Sammeln, Speichern, Er/Zählen : infrastrukturelle Konfigurationen des deutschen Gedächtnisses

/home/mackenza/notes/references_Converted.md:%O Splintering urbanism : networked infrastructures, technological mobilities and the urban condition
/home/mackenza/notes/rose_politics_life_2006.md:Key tension in contemporary biopolitics – intensifying somatic ethics in the West … and inequities and injustics of the local and global economic, technological and biomedical infrastructure required to support such a somatic ethic … 
/home/mackenza/notes/sassens_networks_state_2000.md:The embeddedness of private economic electronic space entails the formation of massive concentrations of infrastructure, not only worldwide dispersal, and a complex interaction between conventional communications infrastructure and digitalization. 28
/home/mackenza/notes/sorting_things_out.md:Infrastructures are never transparent for everyone, and their workability as they scale up becomes increasingly complex. Through due methodological attention to the architecture and use of these systems, we can achieve a deeper understanding of how individuals and communities meet infrastructure. (Bowker & Star, 1999, 33)
/home/mackenza/notes/sorting_things_out.md:In the past 100 years, people in all lines of work have jointly constructed an incredible, interlocking set of categories, standards, and means for interoperating infrastructural technologies. We hardly know what we have built. No one is in control of infrastructure; no one has the power centrally to change it. To the extent that we live in, on, and around this new infrastructure, it helps form the shape of our moral, scientific, and esthetic choices. Infrastructure is now the great inner space. (Bowker & Star, 1999, 319)
/home/mackenza/notes/sorting_things_out.md:As sets of classification systems coalesce into working infrastructures they become integrated into information systems of all sorts. ... [I]nformation systems design should be informed by organizational and political analysis at this level. Rather we have-along with many researchers in the field of social informatics-demonstrated empirically that invisible organizational structures influence the design and use of systems. (Bowker & Star, 1999, 323)
/home/mackenza/notes/sorting_things_out.md:Working infrastructures contain multiple classification systems that are both invisible, in the senses above, and ubiquitous. The invisibility of infrastructure makes visualization or description difficult. ... Our infrastructural metaphors show how baffled we often are by these systems. They are like undergarments or tunnel dwellers. (Bowker & Star, 1999, 232)
/home/mackenza/notes/sorting_things_out.md:It is politically and ethically crucial to recognize the vital role of infrastructure in the “built moral environment.” Seemingly purely technical issues like how to name things and how to store data in fact constitute much of what we have come to know as natural. (Bowker & Star, 1999, 326)
/home/mackenza/notes/star_ruhleder_ecology_infrastructure.md:What is the relationship between large scale infrastructure and organizational change? Who (or what) is changer, and who changed? (Star & Ruhleder, 1996, 112)
/home/mackenza/notes/star_ruhleder_ecology_infrastructure.md:A tool is not just a thing with pre-given attributes frozen in time- but a thing becomes a tool in practice, for someone, when connected to some particular activity. ... The tool  emerges in situ. By analogy, infrastructure is something that emerges for people in practice, connected to activities and structures. (Star & Ruhleder, 1996, 112)
/home/mackenza/notes/star_ruhleder_ecology_infrastructure.md:We hold that infrastructure is a fundamentally relational concept. It becomes infrastructure in relation to organized practices. ... Thus we ask, when-not what-is an infrastructure. (Star & Ruhleder, 1996, 113)
/home/mackenza/notes/star_ruhleder_ecology_infrastructure.md:Analytically, infrastructure appears only as a relational property, not as a thing stripped of use. (Star & Ruhleder, 1996, 113)
/home/mackenza/notes/star_ruhleder_ecology_infrastructure.md:An infrastructure occurs when the tension between local and global is resolved. That is, an infrastructure occurs when local practices are afforded by a larger-scale technology, which can then be used in a natural, ready-to-hand fashion. It becomes transparent as local variations are folded into organizational changes, and becomes an unambiguous home-for somebody. (Star & Ruhleder, 1996, 114)
/home/mackenza/notes/star_ruhleder_ecology_infrastructure.md:Information infrastructure is not a substrate which carries information on it, or in it, in a kind of mind-body dichotomy. The discontinuities are not between system and person, or technology and organization, but rather between contexts. (Star & Ruhleder, 1996, 118)
/home/mackenza/notes/star_ruhleder_ecology_infrastructure.md:Experience with groupware suggests that highly structured applications for collaboration will fail to become integrated into local work practices. ... Rather, experimentation over time results in the emergence of a complex constellation of locally-tailored applications and repositories, combined with pockets of local knowledge and expertise. They begin to interweave themselves with elements of the formal infrastructure to create a unique and evolving hybrid. This evolution is facilitated by those elements of the formal structure which support the redefinition of local roles and the emergence of communities of practice around the intersection of specific technologies and types of problems. (Star & Ruhleder, 1996, 132)
/home/mackenza/notes/terranova_network_2004.md:[W]e can say that the whole plane of network culture is crisscrossed by social undercurrents that pose the problem of a global geopolitics not only at the level of technical infrastructure, but, more importantly, at the speed of cultural and informational flows. A network culture can never be a unitary formation, describing a homogeneity of practices across a global communication matrix. On the contrary, if such a thing exists, it can only describe the dynamics informing the cultural and political process of recomposition and decomposition of a highly differentiated, multi-scaled and yet common global network culture. 72
/home/mackenza/notes/zehle_african_software_2005.md:establishing public ICT infrastructures. While many companies and
/home/mackenza/notes/zehle_african_software_2005.md:infrastructural investments, offer an alternative to the technological
