{\rtf1\ansi\deff1\adeflang1025
{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fprq2\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fnil\fprq0\fcharset0 Trebuchet MS;}{\f2\fnil\fprq0\fcharset0 Trebuchet MS;}{\f3\fnil\fprq2\fcharset0 Arial Unicode MS;}{\f4\fnil\fprq0\fcharset0 Tahoma;}{\f5\fnil\fprq2\fcharset0 Tahoma;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;}
{\stylesheet{\s1\rtlch\af5\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af3\afs24\langfe255\loch\fs24\lang1033\snext1 Default;}
{\s2\sa120\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033\sbasedon1\snext2 Text body;}
{\s3\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af4\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\fs24\lang1033\sbasedon2\snext3 List;}
{\s4\sb120\sa120\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af4\afs20\lang255\ai\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs20\langfe255\ai\loch\fs20\lang1033\i\sbasedon1\snext4 Caption;}
{\s5\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af4\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\fs24\lang1033\sbasedon1\snext5 Index;}
}
{\info{\creatim\yr2004\mo8\dy2\hr14\min58}{\revtim\yr1601\mo1\dy1\hr0\min0}{\printim\yr1601\mo1\dy1\hr0\min0}{\comment StarWriter}{\vern6450}}\deftab709
{\*\pgdsctbl
{\pgdsc0\pgdscuse195\pgwsxn11905\pghsxn16837\marglsxn1134\margrsxn1134\margtsxn1134\margbsxn1134\pgdscnxt0 Default;}}
{\*\pgdscno0}\paperh16837\paperw11905\margl1134\margr1134\margt1134\margb1134\sectd\sbknone\pgwsxn11905\pghsxn16837\marglsxn1134\margrsxn1134\margtsxn1134\margbsxn1134\ftnbj\ftnstart1\ftnrstcont\ftnnar\aenddoc\aftnrstcont\aftnstart1\aftnnrlc
\pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\ql\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033 {\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033\i0\b0 \{Kauffman Stuart, 1993 #454\}}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\ql\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033 
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\ql\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033 {\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033\i0\b0 Kauffman Stuart, A. 1993. {\i The origins of order : self organization and selection in evolution}. New York: Oxford University Press.}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\ql\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033 {\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033\i0\b0 I shall suggest that there are general principles characterizing complex system able to adapt: They achieve a \ldblquote poised\rdblquote  state near the boundary between order and chaos, a state which optimizes the complexity of tasks the systems can perform and simultaneous
ly optimizes evolvability. (173)}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\ql\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033 {\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033\i0\b0 Dynamical attractors \ldblquote box\rdblquote  the behaviour of a system into small parts of its state space, or space of possibilities. Hence attractors literally are most of what a system does. It is the boxing of behaviour into small parts of state space which constitutes 
much of the self-organization we shall encounter. (174)}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\ql\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033 {\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033\i0\b0 The transition from the ordered regime to the chaotic regime constitutes a phase transition, which occurs as a variety of parameters are chnaged. The transition region, on the edge between order and choas, is the {\i complex} regime. 174}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\ql\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033 {\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033\i0\b0 The general definition of an {\i attractor} is a set of points or states in state space to which trajectories within some volume of state space converge asymptotically over time. Thus, in addition to simple steady states, continuous dynamical systems may admit 
of more complex attractors. 177}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\ql\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033 {\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033\i0\b0 The interesting of property of such attractors is that, if the system is released from two points on the attractor which {\i arbitrarily} {\i close} to each other, the subsequence trajectories remain on the attractor surface but {\i diverge away }from each other. After a
 sufficient time flowing on the attractor, the two trajectories can be arbitrarily far apart on it. 178}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\ql\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033 {\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033\i0\b0 The second feature to notice about strange attractors is that they may be of very low dimensionality even in a high-dimensional state space. Thus a system may have 100 variables, but flow may be restricted to a strange attractor of two dimensions, a folded
 surface closing back on itself in that 100-dimensional space. From the point of view of the entire state space, the attractor is a very small object indeed. 178}
\par }