{\rtf1\ansi\deff1\adeflang1025
{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fprq2\fcharset0 Times New Roman{\*\falt Thorndale};}{\f1\fnil\fprq0\fcharset0 Arial;}{\f2\fnil\fprq0\fcharset0 Trebuchet MS;}{\f3\fswiss\fprq2\fcharset0 Trebuchet MS;}{\f4\fnil\fprq0\fcharset0 Arial;}{\f5\fnil\fprq2\fcharset0 HG Mincho Light J;}{\f6\fnil\fprq2\fcharset0 Arial Unicode MS;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;}
{\stylesheet{\s1\cf1{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe1033\loch\f1\fs24\lang255\snext1 Default;}
{\s2\sa120\cf1{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe1033\loch\f1\fs24\lang255\sbasedon1\snext2 Text body;}
{\s3\sa120\cf1{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe1033\loch\f2\fs24\lang255\sbasedon2\snext3 List;}
{\s4\sb120\sa120\cf1{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af1\afs20\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs20\langfe1033\loch\f2\fs20\lang255\i\sbasedon1\snext4 Caption;}
{\s5\cf1{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe1033\loch\f2\fs24\lang255\sbasedon1\snext5 Index;}
{\s6\sb240\sa120\keepn\cf1{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af6\afs28\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af5\afs28\langfe1033\loch\f1\fs28\lang255\sbasedon1\snext2 Heading;}
}
{\info{\comment StarWriter}{\vern6410}}\deftab720
{\*\pgdsctbl
{\pgdsc0\pgdscuse195\pgwsxn11905\pghsxn16837\marglsxn1134\margrsxn1134\margtsxn1134\margbsxn1134\pgdscnxt0 Default;}}
\paperh16837\paperw11905\margl1134\margr1134\margt1134\margb1134\sectd\sbknone\pgwsxn11905\pghsxn16837\marglsxn1134\margrsxn1134\margtsxn1134\margbsxn1134\ftnbj\ftnstart1\ftnrstcont\ftnnar\aenddoc\aftnrstcont\aftnstart1\aftnnrlc
\pard\plain \s2\sa120\cf1{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe1033\loch\f1\fs24\lang255\ltrch\loch\f3 {\ltrch\loch\f3 Lash, Scott {\i Critique of Information }Sage Publications, London 2002}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f3 In the information order central is less exploitation than exclusion. And  exclusion is first and foremost something that is defined in conjunction with the information and communication flows. with information and communication structures. What emerges he
re is a 'loop' of relatively disembedded (hence increasingly global] elites. The information order is a society of 'the and' connected by networks. 4\'0d}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f3 information order is a society of 'the and' connected by networks. These networks have mobile human-machine interfaces as terminals that are connected by lines of communication. Through these interfaces flow finance, technology media, culture, information,
 communications and the like. There is something 'generic' (i.e. not national, a-contextual and non-identity] about being in the loop of such networks. 4}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f3 What kind of culture is the information culture? More specifically, in what sense is the information order a technological culture? 156}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f3 In the representational culture the subject is in a different world than things. In the technological culture the subject is in the world with things. Previously existing transcendence and dualism is displaced by the immanence, monism (156)}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f3 In technological forms of life, not just resistance, but also power is non-linear. Power itself is not longer primarily pedagogical or narrative but instead itself performative. 'Nation' now works less through 'narrative' or 'pedagogy' but through the perf
ormativity of information and communication. Power works less through the linearity and the reflective argument of discourse than through the immediacy of communications. Power works not perhaps primarily neither on the level of the reflective intellect no
r on the level of the unconscious, but on the level of tacit knowledge. 25}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f3 Politics in technological life is also a politics in which those at the interface of technology and forms of life, the already significant and increasing numbers employed in the laboratoris and studios, will play an ever more important role. 25}
\par 
\par {\ltrch\loch\f3 This sort of idea takes on temporal characteristics in the process of reflexive modernization. Here reflexivity involves the reflexive monitoring of the object by the subject, in which the subject subsumes the object under rules. This accounts for only par
t of the theory of reflexive modernization. The other part, which can be more or less prominent, is the dimension of unintended consequences, the dimension of risk and uncertainty. That is, the more we monitor or self-monitor, the more we subsume cognivite
ly, the more gets out of control, the more risk, uncertainty we bring about. The more we monitor the object, the more the object escapes our grasp. ... This moment of contingency, this where the object, or the self, escapes the cognitive categories of the 
subject, is indeed aesthetic. (50)}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f3 Platforms and standards are conditions of entry into technological forms of life; genetic databases are potentially such Platforms. Technological forms of life are through and through Informational. And the critique of information lies in the power of, the
 'and': in the power of the supplement to reconstitute the boundaries and reconfigure the objects. The critique of information lies in the supplement that can make its modest contribution to reconfiguring such material, human, biological and social forms o
f life. 201 }
\par {\ltrch\loch\f3 What happens is a shift from a register of meaning to one of operationality. The organic systems of' the national manufacturing order worked through meaning. The cybernetic and possibly open systems of the information age have to do instead with operationa
lity. The question is not so much what does it mean but how does it work. 216}
\par 
\par {\ltrch\loch\f3 In 'modernist formalism', relations between elements in paintings or sculptures give us meaning. They can open up onto deeper existential meaning (see, for example, the commentsby Blaue Relier artists, Picasso and many others]. Art in contrast would involv
e not meaning but operationality. At issue is not the 'formalism' of modern art but instead conceptual art.  217}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f3 Struggles over property in technological forms of life bring to centre stage the question of platforms. Discourse on forms of life, whether in biology or philosophy and corresponding roughly to the birth of sociology were conterminous with the massive perv
asion of manufacturing capitalism at the turn of the twentieth century and rise of the industrial working class. At centre stage was real property, and especially potentially movable and easily transferable and disposable real property in the manufacturing
 Means of production. 197}
\par 
\par {\ltrch\loch\f3 Technoscientific struggles very centrally concern objects, over whether and how objects or prototypes should be  proprietary. These are struggles over the boundaries between the proprietary and non-proprietary and in the case of the proprietary, is who sha
ll have these intellectual property rights 194}
\par 
\par {\ltrch\loch\f3 The problem however, is that the external place for reflection and critique tends to disappear. The role of the witness, says Haraway (MW: 63] js not to represent knowledge, 'but to articulate the clusters of processes, objects' and figures and marks. It i
s, through this articulation, to modify the boundaries. We, as modest witnesses, articulate and connect to the techno- scientific information order, not for a critical space but as an articulation. We occupy not a critical space of separate ontological sub
stance, but are instead one more supplement, connected by one more articulation, one more (and'. one more conjunction to the global technoscientific information networks linking to other laboratories, to other studios and to other sites. 193}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f3 The paradigmatic media of the electronic age - tee advent, 'the world of games and models' - are not representations of situations. They are not 'mirrors of situations' they are instead 'extensions of situations elsewhere' (UM: 4). They are not representat
ional but additive. As extensions of situations elsewhere they are supplements. 180}
\par 
\par {\ltrch\loch\f3 What holds together such enterprises over time, he asks. The answer is the accounting practices members carry out in regard to one another; the accounting practices that are incarnate, that are reflexively tied to activities in a given setting. Thus Garfin
kel focuses on conversations. 171\tab }
\par {\ltrch\loch\f3 Relationships between all three of these elements - subject, cultural object and real object - are distanciated in the representational culture. In the technological culture, all three are in the same world, in the same immanent world. 100}
\par 
\par {\ltrch\loch\f3 'PIatforms' are lifted-out spaces. Microsoft Windows Operating system is such a platform. It comes under intellectual property law, the law of copyright. But platforms are not necessarily proprietary. 24}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f3 In the Information age, cultural experience is displaced from the previously existing transcendental dualisms of the reader and the book, the concerto and the audience, the painting and the spectator. Culture is displaced into an immanent plane of actors a
ttached or inter faced with machines. Now we experience cultural things not as transcendental representations, but instead as immanent things: as objects, as technologies. In this generalized immanence, superstructures collapse as the economy is culturaliz
ed, informationalized. 9}
\par 
\par 
\par {\ltrch\loch\f3 Information society has for its unintended consequences the information culture. The rational control of reflexive accumulation has as its consequences the out-of-control anarchy of information diffusion. 146}
\par 
\par {\ltrch\loch\f3 Culture, i.e. Forms of life, previously the antithesis of property becomes proprietary.  ... This is especially important today with the 'platform'. Platforms are conditions of possibility of technological forms of life. They are constitutive rather than r
egulative. Thus operating systems are constitutive without which there can be no regulative rules. Platforms are particularly central forms of intellectual property. They are gatekeepers that bar and enable participation in in technological forms of life.}
\par }