{\rtf1\ansi\deff1\adeflang1025
{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fprq2\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fnil\fprq0\fcharset0 Trebuchet MS;}{\f2\fnil\fprq0\fcharset0 Trebuchet MS;}{\f3\fnil\fprq2\fcharset0 HG Mincho Light J;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;}
{\stylesheet{\s1{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af3\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang255\snext1 Default;}
{\s2\sa120\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\sbasedon1\snext2 Text body;}
{\s3\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\sbasedon2\snext3 List;}
{\s4\sb120\sa120\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af1\afs20\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs20\langfe255\loch\f1\fs20\lang2057\i\sbasedon1\snext4 Caption;}
{\s5\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\sbasedon1\snext5 Index;}
}
{\info{\comment StarWriter}{\vern6450}}\deftab1250
{\*\pgdsctbl
{\pgdsc0\pgdscuse195\pgwsxn11905\pghsxn16837\marglsxn1134\margrsxn1134\margtsxn1134\margbsxn1134\pgdscnxt0 Default;}}
{\*\pgdscno0}\paperh16837\paperw11905\margl1134\margr1134\margt1134\margb1134\sectd\sbknone\pgwsxn11905\pghsxn16837\marglsxn1134\margrsxn1134\margtsxn1134\margbsxn1134\ftnbj\ftnstart1\ftnrstcont\ftnnar\aenddoc\aftnrstcont\aftnstart1\aftnnrlc
\pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057 {\loch\f1\fs24\lang255\i0\b0 Latour, Bruno {\i Aramis, or the love of technology, }trans. by Catherine Porter, Harvard U.P,\~1996}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057 
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057 {\loch\f1\fs24\lang255\i0\b0 How to frame a technological investigation? By sticking to the framework and the limits indicated by the interviewees themselves. .... If that indifference to the general \ldblquote framework\rdblquote  is shocking, let\rquote s say that our sociology prefers a local history whose f
ramework is defined by the actors and not by the investigator. (Latour, 1996, 18-19)}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057 
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057 {\loch\f1\fs24\lang255\i0\b0 The observer of technologies has to be very careful not to differentiate too hastily between signs and things, between projects and objects, between fiction and reality, between a novel about feelings and what is inscribed in the nature of things. In fact,
 the engineers the observer is studying pass progressively from one of these sets to another. (Latour, 1996, 24)}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057 
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057 {\loch\f1\fs24\lang255\i0\b0 How does this blend [of major social questions and properly technological questions in a single discourse] come about? Not by chance, but by a precise operation of translation. ... [C]hains of translation  ... transform a global problem (the city, the cent
ury) into a local problem (...) through a series of intermediaries that are not \ldblquote logical\rdblquote  in the formal sense of the term, but that oblige those ... who are interested in the global problem to become interested, through almost imperceptible shifts, in the 
local solution. (Latour, 1996, 33)}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057 
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057 {\loch\f1\fs24\lang255\i0\b0 Innovation always comes with a blending or redistribution of properties that had previously been dispersed. (Latour, 1996, 36)}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057 
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057 {\loch\f1\fs24\lang255\i0\b0 The actors come in varying sizes; this is the whole problem with innovation. ... In a project\rquote s history, the suspense derives from the swelling or shrinking of the relative size of the actors. (Latour, 1996, 44-45)}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057 
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057 {\loch\f1\fs24\lang255\i0\b0 By accumulating little solidities, little durabilities, little resistances, the project ends up gradually becoming somewhat more real.  (Latour, 1996, 45-46)}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057 
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057 {\loch\f1\fs24\lang255\i0\b0 If all the actors had to agree unambiguously on the definition of what was to be done, then the probability of carrying out a project would be very slight indeed, for reality remains polymorphous for a very long time. (Latour, 1996, 48)}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057 
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057 {\loch\f1\fs24\lang255\i0\b0 The full difficulty of innovation becomes apparent when we recognize that it brings together, in one place, on a joint undertaking, a number of interested people, a good half of whom are prepared to jump ship, and an array of things, most of which are abou
t to break down. These aren\rquote t two parallel series that could each be evaluated independently, but two mixed series. (Latour, 1996, 58)}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057 
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057 {\loch\f1\fs24\lang255\i0\b0 To the sociogram,  which charts human interests and translations, you have to add the technogram,  which charts the interests and attachments of nonhumans. (Latour, 1996, 58)}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057 
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057 {\loch\f1\fs24\lang255\i0\b0 Men [sic] and things exchange properties and replace one another; this is what gives technological projects their full savor.  ... In moving from humans to nonhumans, we do not move from social relations to cold technology. (Latour, 1996, 61-62)}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057 
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057 {\loch\f1\fs24\lang255\i0\b0 The frontier between \ldblquote the bulk of the work\rdblquote  and \ldblquote fine-tuning the details\rdblquote  remains in flux for a long time; its position is the object of intense negotiation. To simplify its task, every group tends to think that its own role is most important, and that the
 next group in the chain just needs to concern itself with the technical details,  or to apply the principles that the first group has defined. Moreover, this way of looking at things is integrated in project management: by going from what is less real to 
what is more real, you often divide up projects into so-called phases. ... Consensus about the length, importance, and order of phases is not the general case. It is a special case - that of projects that work well. (Latour, 1996, 67)}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057 
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057 
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057 
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057 {\loch\f1\fs24\lang255\i0\b0 A project is called innovative if the number of actors that have to be taken into account is not a given from the outset. If that number is known in advance, in contrast, the project can follow quite orderly, hierarchical phases. (Latour, 1996, 72)}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057 
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057 {\loch\f1\fs24\lang255\i0\b0 About technological projects,  one can only be subjective. Only those projects that turn into objects, institutions, allow for objectivity. (Latour, 1996, 75)}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057 
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057 {\loch\f1\fs24\lang255\i0\b0 If we say that a successful project existed from the beginning because it was well conceived and that a failed project went aground because it was badly conceived, we are saying nothing. (Latour, 1996, 78)}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057 
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057 {\loch\f1\fs24\lang255\i0\b0 Let\rquote s not make a vertical separation between what exists and what does not exist. ... The project that does not exist is both easier and harder to explain that the one that does. (Latour, 1996, 79)}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057 
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057 {\loch\f1\fs24\lang255\i0\b0 To study a technological project, one must constantly move from signs to things, and vice versa. (Latour, 1996, 80)}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057 
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057 {\loch\f1\fs24\lang255\i0\b0 For the engineer substitutes for the signs he writes the things that he has mobilized; he attaches  them to each so they\rquote ll hold up; then he withdraws a little, delegating  to another self, in the form of a chip, a sensor, or an automatic device, the task 
of watching over the connection. And this delegating allows him to withdraw even further-as if there were an object. (Latour, 1996, 81)}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057 
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057 {\loch\f1\fs24\lang255\i0\b0 A technological project is neither realistic nor unrealistic; it takes on reality, or loses it, by degrees. (Latour, 1996, 85)}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057 
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057 {\loch\f1\fs24\lang255\i0\b0 The time frame for innovations depends on the geometry of the actors, not on the calendar .... All you have to do is reconstruct the chain of permissions and refusals, alliances and losses, to understand that a project may not budge for a hundred years or 
that it may transform itself completely in four minutes flat. ... Time is what is counted. It is not an explanatory variable; it is a dependent variable that needs to be explained. (Latour, 1996, 88)}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057 
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057 {\loch\f1\fs24\lang255\i0\b0 The only way to increase a project\rquote s reality is to compromise, to accept sociotechnological compromises. (Latour, 1996, 99)}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057 
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057 {\loch\f1\fs24\lang255\i0\b0 The pertinent question is not whether it\rquote s a matter of technology or society, but only what is the best sociotechnological compromise. (Latour, 1996, 101)}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057 
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057 {\loch\f1\fs24\lang255\i0\b0 In the first place, a project isn\rquote t one  project. It\rquote s taken as a whole or as a set of disconnected parts, depending on whether circumstances are favorable or unfavorable. }
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057 {\loch\f1\fs24\lang255\i0\b0 In the first place it\rquote s abstract, since each element, once drawn in, once \ldblquote interested,\rdblquote  pursues its own goal and tries to conform as little as possible to the common translation. (Latour, 1996, 106)}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057 
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057 {\loch\f1\fs24\lang255\i0\b0 The question of how many elements compose a technological system cannot be answered by ordinary arithmetic. When there are breakdowns, accidents, strikes, the components separate into individuals and proliferate; then, when the system starts up again, they
 disappear, and literally do count any longer. (Latour, 1996, 107)}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057 
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057 {\loch\f1\fs24\lang255\i0\b0 The topology of technological projects is as peculiar as their arithmetic.  ... A technological project would thus be neither complex nor simple; it would be a well-organized series of Russian dolls.}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057 {\loch\f1\fs24\lang255\i0\b0 Unfortunately, arrangements of this sort are valid only for finished objects that need simply to be supported and maintained. The lovely series of successive tasks and embedded specializations is not valid for projects. (Latour, 1996, 108)}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057 
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057 {\loch\f1\fs24\lang255\i0\b0 What counts, in  a technological project, is deciding what has to be negotiated, and deciding on an official doctrine that will make it possible to proceed with any negotiation at all. (Latour, 1996, 112)}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057 
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057 {\loch\f1\fs24\lang255\i0\b0 People who study technological projects take too little interest in the official doctrines dealing with the actual management of the projects. This metalanguage appears parasitical. Yet it plays the same essential role that strategic doctrines play in the 
conduct of wars. In the course of a battle or a project, ideas about the way to handle battles or innovations play a performative role. ... Writing a project\rquote s history also means writing the history of the ambient theories about project management. (Latour
, 1996, 113)}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057 
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057 {\loch\f1\fs24\lang255\i0\b0 The more a technological project progresses, the more the role of technology decreases, in relative terms: such is the paradox of development. ... The only thing a technological project cannot do is contextualize itself without placing itself in a broader 
context. (Latour, 1996, 126-7)}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057 
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057 {\loch\f1\fs24\lang255\i0\b0 A technological project is not in a context; it gives itself a context, or sometimes does not give itself one.}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057 {\loch\f1\fs24\lang255\i0\b0 What it requires is not to \ldblquote replace projects in their context,\rdblquote  as the foolish expression goes, but to study the way the project is contextualized or decontextualized. To do that, the rigid, stuffy word \ldblquote context\rdblquote  has to be replaced  by the supple, friendly
 work \ldblquote network.\rdblquote  (Latour, 1996, 133)}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057 {\loch\f1\fs24\lang255\i0\b0 The work of contextualizing makes the connection between  a context and a project completely unforeseeable. (Latour, 1996, 137) }
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057 
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057 {\loch\f1\fs24\lang255\i0\b0 Technological projects become reversible or irreversible in relation to the work of contextualization ... (Latour, 1996, 142)}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057 
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057 {\loch\f1\fs24\lang255\i0\b0 During a given period, the form, scope and power of the context change for every technological project. ... That is why the context is such a bad predictor of a project\rquote s fate. ... To do contingent history is also to structure, to contextualize, and thus t
o gain or lose in necessity. (Latour, 1996, 154-5)}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057 
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057 {\loch\f1\fs24\lang255\i0\b0 The actors don\rquote t have a strategy; they get their battle plans, contradictory ones, from other actors.}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057 {\loch\f1\fs24\lang255\i0\b0 The actors in a technological project populate the world with other actors whom they endow with qualities, to whom they give a past, to whom they attribute motivations, visions, goals, targets, and desires, and whose margin of maneuver they define. It is p
recisely because of this work of populating that they are called actors. For a given actor, this is the way the strategy of the other actors is interdefined.}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057 
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057 {\loch\f1\fs24\lang255\i0\b0 The actors create both their society and their sociology, their language and their metalanguage. }
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057 {\loch\f1\fs24\lang255\i0\b0 ....}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057 {\loch\f1\fs24\lang255\i0\b0 There are as many theories of action as there are actors.}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057 {\loch\f1\fs24\lang255\i0\b0 ...}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057 {\loch\f1\fs24\lang255\i0\b0 To the multiplicity of actors a new multiplicity is added: that of the efforts made to unify, to simplify, to make coherent the multiplicity of viewpoints, goals and desires, so as to impose a single theory of action. In the strange arithmetic of projects,
 everything is added; nothing is taken away. (Latour, 1996, 167-8)}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057 
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057 {\loch\f1\fs24\lang255\i0\b0 To study technological projects you have to move from a classical sociology-which has fixed frames of reference-to a relativistic sociology-which has fluctuating referents.}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057 {\loch\f1\fs24\lang255\i0\b0 If the actors in a project define not only the other actors\rquote  essences and desires but also the rules for interpretation that makes these definitions workable, all their viewpoints have to be deployed in a supple frame of reference. (Latour, 1996, 169-70)}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057 
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057 {\loch\f1\fs24\lang255\i0\b0 With a technological project, interpretations  of the project cannot be separated from the project itself, unless the project has become an object. }
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057 {\loch\f1\fs24\lang255\i0\b0 The actors\rquote  or observers\rquote  interpretations of the actors\rquote  motivations and interests become more real and less real as a function of the progressive realization or derealization of these interpretations. (Latour, 1996, 172)}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057 
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057 {\loch\f1\fs24\lang255\i0\b0 Technological projects are deployed in a variable-ontology world; that\rquote s the result of the interdefinition of the actors. (Latour, 1996, 173)}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057 
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057 {\loch\f1\fs24\lang255\i0\b0 To survive in a variable-ontology world, the promoters of a technological project have to imagine little bridges that let them temporarily ensure their stability.}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057 {\loch\f1\fs24\lang255\i0\b0 Actors never swim twice in the same river. As they are defining one another, as they are changing ontologies and offering each other their theories of action, there\rquote s no guarantee of their own continuity in time. ... Thus, not only is the actors\rquote  size vari
able, not only are their goals renegotiable, but their very isotopy is the product of work. For actors, there\rquote s no such thing as the force of inertia, any more than there is for projects themselves. (Latour, 1996, 175-6)}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057 
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057 {\loch\f1\fs24\lang255\i0\b0 The actors themselves are working to solve the problem raised by the relativist sociology in which they\rquote ve situated one another.}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057 {\loch\f1\fs24\lang255\i0\b0 They have to ensure the stability of their interpretations by establishing catwalks that allow them to go from one reference frame to another while modifying their own viewpoints as little as possible. (Latour, 1996, 179)}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057 
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057 {\loch\f1\fs24\lang255\i0\b0 The human sciences do not show up as the curtain falls, in order to interpret the phenomenon. They constitute the phenomenon. And the most important human sciences, always overlooked, include accounting, management, economics, the \ldblquote cameral sciences\rdblquote  (burea
u-graphy), and statistics. (Latour, 1996, 180)}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057 
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057 {\loch\f1\fs24\lang255\i0\b0 In order to keep their grasp on the branches, the actors install little valorimeters in as many points as possible, to ensure the translation of one point of view into another. ...}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057 {\loch\f1\fs24\lang255\i0\b0 By multiplying the valorimeters that allow them to measure the tests in store and prove certain states of power relations, the actors manage to achieve some notion of what they want. By doing their own economics, their own sociology, their own statistics, 
they do the observer\rquote s work and construct the fluctuating object that the observer will have to investigate. (Latour, 1996, 180-1)}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057 
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057 {\loch\f1\fs24\lang255\i0\b0 Economics is not the reality principle of technology; ...}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057 {\loch\f1\fs24\lang255\i0\b0 Every technical project has to define a type of economic calculus that makes it more profitable. Economics is not a framework in which engineers subsequently insert themselves, one that would server as an overall constraint; it\rquote s a simulation that mobilize
s human-beings-on-paper by means of calculations. (Latour, 1996, 183)}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057 
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057 {\loch\f1\fs24\lang255\i0\b0 The interpretations offered by the relativist actors are performatives.}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057 {\loch\f1\fs24\lang255\i0\b0 They prove themselves by transforming the world in conformity with their perspective on the world. By stabilizing their interpretation, the actors end up creating a world-for-others that strongly resembles an absolute world with fixed reference points. (La
tour, 1996, 195)}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057 
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057 {\loch\f1\fs24\lang255\i0\b0 [Contrast between classical and \lquote relativist\rquote  sociology]}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057 {\loch\f1\fs24\lang255\i0\b0 Relativist sociology has no fixed reference frames, and consequently no metalanguage. It expects the actors to understand what they are and what it is. It does not know what society is composed of, and that is why it goes off to learn from others, from who
 are constructing society. It adds its own interpretations to those of the actors whose fate it shares, often less felicitously than they. It seeks, too, to perform reality in order to keep its own version of the facts stabilized a little longer, and it co
nfronts, fraternally, the contrary opinion of those it is studying. (Latour, 1996, 200)}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057 
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057 {\loch\f1\fs24\lang255\i0\b0 Mechanisms cope with the contradictions of humans. ...}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057 {\loch\f1\fs24\lang255\i0\b0 Although charged by humanists with the sin of being \ldblquote simply\rdblquote  efficient, \ldblquote purely\rdblquote  functional, \ldblquote strictly\rdblquote  material, \ldblquote totally\rdblquote  devoid of goals, mechanisms nevertheless absorb our compromises, our desires, our spirit, and our morality-and silence them. (Latour
, 1996, 206-7)}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057 
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057 {\loch\f1\fs24\lang255\i0\b0 To propose the description of a technological mechanism is to extract from it precisely the script that the engineers had transcribed in the mechanisms and the automatisms of humans or nonhumans.  It is to retrace the path of incarnation in the other direc
tion. It is to rewrite in words and arguments what has become, what might have become, thanks to the intermediary of mechanisms, a mute function. (Latour, 1996, 207)}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057 
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057 {\loch\f1\fs24\lang255\i0\b0 A technical project always gets more complicated because the engineers want to reinscribe in it what threatens to interrupts it course. (Latour, 1996, 209)}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057 
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057 {\loch\f1\fs24\lang255\i0\b0 Every technology may be a project, an object, or an exchanger. }
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057 {\loch\f1\fs24\lang255\i0\b0 [T]here are no objects, except when things go wrong and they die or rust. ...}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057 {\loch\f1\fs24\lang255\i0\b0 Thus, the object, the real thing, the thing that acts, exists only provided that it holds humans and nonhumans together, continuously. ...}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057 {\loch\f1\fs24\lang255\i0\b0 For the thing we are looking for is not a human thing, nor is it an inhuman thing. If offers, rather, a continuous passage, a commerce, an interchange, between what humans inscribe in it  and what it prescribes to humans. It translates the one into the oth
er. This thing is the nonhuman version of people, it is the human version of things, twice displaced. What should it be called? Neither object nor subject. An instituted object, quasi-object, quasi-subject, a thing that possesses body and soul indissociabl
y. (Latour, 1996, 212-3)}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057 
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057 {\loch\f1\fs24\lang255\i0\b0 It is in the detours that we recognize a technological act; that has been true since the dawn of time. }
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057 {\loch\f1\fs24\lang255\i0\b0 And it is in the number of detours that we recognize a project\rquote s degree of complexity. (Latour, 1996, 215)}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057 
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057 {\loch\f1\fs24\lang255\i0\b0 The circumscribing, the coding, and the visualization of the division of tasks allows a piling up of Russian dolls that increases the complication of the whole, yet the technological object, in the eyes of a given observer, never increases in complication.
 Wherever the observer is located, she will never see anything more challenging than that flow chart ... The entire technological wizardry lies in the impenetrable partitions and in the pegs that make it possible to hook one\rquote s task to a neighbour\rquote s. The pa
radox of a technological object with millions of instructions is that it is, from the standpoint of the division of labour, a fractal object that is equally simple at every point, and whole looks nevertheless like a Leviathan that infinitely surpasses huma
n measure. (Latour, 1996, 217)}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057 
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057 {\loch\f1\fs24\lang255\i0\b0 The work of folding in technological mechanisms can go from complication to complexity. (Latour, 1996, 219)}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057 
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057 {\loch\f1\fs24\lang255\i0\b0 Thanks to computers, we now know that there are only differences of degree between matter and texts. }
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057 {\loch\f1\fs24\lang255\i0\b0 ...}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057 {\loch\f1\fs24\lang255\i0\b0 But we still thought, in spite of everything, that the agents mobilized by machines eluded forms and programs. We thought there was a frontier beyond which one really moved into matter, that inert and cold stuff, functional and soulless, which earned the a
dmiration of materialists and the scorn of the humanists. But no, calculators continue to accumulate layers of forms and diagrams, adding them to other forms and other masks, half spirit and half matter, half imprint and half text, without our ever crossin
g the famous barrier between sign and thing, between spirit and matter. (Latour, 1996, 222)}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057 
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057 {\loch\f1\fs24\lang255\i0\b0 Programs are written, chips are engraved like etchings or photographed like plans. Yet they do what they say? yes, of course, for all of them-texts and things-act. They are programs of action whose scriptor may delegate their realization to electrons, or s
igns, or habits, or neurons. But then is there no longer any difference between humans and nonhumans? No, but there is no difference between the spirit of machines and their matter, either.  (Latour, 1996, 223)}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057 
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057 {\loch\f1\fs24\lang255\i0\b0 Technological mechanisms are not anthropomorphs any more than humans are technomorphs.}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057 {\loch\f1\fs24\lang255\i0\b0 Humans and nonhumans take on form by redistributing the competences and performances of the multitude of actors that they hold on to and that hold on to them. }
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057 {\loch\f1\fs24\lang255\i0\b0 ...}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057 {\loch\f1\fs24\lang255\i0\b0 The human form is as unknown to us as the nonhuman. (Latour, 1996, 225-227)}
\par }