{\rtf1\ansi\deff1\adeflang1025
{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fprq2\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fnil\fprq0\fcharset0 Trebuchet MS;}{\f2\fnil\fprq0\fcharset0 Trebuchet MS;}{\f3\fnil\fprq2\fcharset0 Arial Unicode MS;}{\f4\fnil\fprq2\fcharset0 Tahoma;}{\f5\fnil\fprq0\fcharset0 Tahoma;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;}
{\stylesheet{\s1\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af4\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af3\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\snext1 Default;}
{\s2\sa120\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af4\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af3\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\sbasedon1\snext2 Text body;}
{\s3\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af5\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af3\afs24\langfe255\loch\fs24\lang2057\sbasedon2\snext3 List;}
{\s4\sb120\sa120\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af5\afs20\lang255\ai\ltrch\dbch\af3\afs20\langfe255\ai\loch\fs20\lang2057\i\sbasedon1\snext4 Caption;}
{\s5\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af5\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af3\afs24\langfe255\loch\fs24\lang2057\sbasedon1\snext5 Index;}
}
{\info{\creatim\yr2004\mo3\dy10\hr11\min27}{\revtim\yr2004\mo3\dy10\hr11\min27}{\printim\yr1601\mo1\dy1\hr0\min0}{\comment StarWriter}{\vern6450}}\deftab709
{\*\pgdsctbl
{\pgdsc0\pgdscuse195\pgwsxn11905\pghsxn16837\marglsxn1134\margrsxn1134\margtsxn1134\margbsxn1134\pgdscnxt0 Default;}}
\paperh16837\paperw11905\margl1134\margr1134\margt1134\margb1134\sectd\sbknone\pgwsxn11905\pghsxn16837\marglsxn1134\margrsxn1134\margtsxn1134\margbsxn1134\ftnbj\ftnstart1\ftnrstcont\ftnnar\aenddoc\aftnrstcont\aftnstart1\aftnnrlc
\pard\plain \ltrpar\s1\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af4\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af3\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057 {\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0  15-Sep-00 - 9:53:58 }
\par 
\par {\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 Law, John Organizing Modernity,  (Blackwell, Oxford  New York, 1994)}
\par 
\par {\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 [T]he social is a set of processes, of transformations. These are moving, acting, interacting. They are generating themselves. Perhaps we can impute patterns in these movements. But here\rquote s the trick, the crucial and most difficult move that we need to make
. We need to say that the patterns, the channels down which they flow, are not different in kind from whatever it is that is channelled by them. (Law, 1994, 15)}
\par 
\par {\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 We are composed of, or constituted by our props, visible and invisible, present and past. ... A person is an effect, a fragile process of networking associated elements. (Law, 1994, 33)[]}
\par 
\par {\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 [P]erhaps any network of bits and pieces tends to count as an agent if it embodies a set of ordering processes which allows it (or others) to say \lquote It is an agent, an actor.\rquote  (Law, 1994, 34)}
\par 
\par {\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 Histories tell us much more about current ordering than they do about the past. (Law, 1994, 53-4)}
\par 
\par {\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 [T]here are a number of discourses, a number of modes of ordering, for thinking of, talking about, and acting out agency - and, of course, structure. (Law, 1994, 62)}
\par 
\par {\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 Enterprise tells stories about agency which celebrate opportunism, pragmatism and performance. ... So it tells of the way in which agents - heroes and organizations - are sensitive to shifting opportunities and demands. (Law, 1994, 75)}
\par 
\par {\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 What should we make of these \lquote modes of ordering\rquote ? What is their status? ... I think of them as fairly regular patterns that may be usefully imputed for certain purposes to the recursive networks of the social.  In other words, they are recurring patterns e
mbodied within, witnessed by, generated in and reproduced as part of the ordering of human and non-human relations. (Law, 1994, 83)}
\par 
\par {\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 [T]he networks of the social carry and instantiate a series of intentional but non-subjective reflexive strategies of social ordering. (Law, 1994, 96)}
\par 
\par {\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 [A]n ordering centre - a centre of translation - strains towards reflexivity and self-reflexivity. That is, it orders what is going on, and acts on the basis of this monitoring. So an ordering centre is (probably) constituted by gathering, simplifying, rep
resenting, making calculations about, and acting upon the flow of immutable mobiles coming in from and departing for the periphery. But this means that there is a further overlapping series of heterogeneous effects or procedures recursively embedded in the
 ordering tactices of the centre of translation, procedures that have to do with representation and calculation. (Law, 1994, 104)}
\par 
\par {\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 [Modes of ordering] represent a way of imputing coherences of self-reflexive \lquote logics\rquote  that are not simply told, performed and embodied in agents, but rather speak through, act and recursively organize the full range of social materials. They offer a way of
 exploring how these modes of ordering interact to create the complex effects that we witness when we look at histories, agents and organizations. (Law, 1994, 109)}
\par 
\par {\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 [T]he recursive networks of the social embody and so, though only ever with partial success, shape themselves by means of reflexive strategies; that they tend to generate places or nodes from which the future might be ordered; and they tend to generate loc
ations, arrangements or patterns of which it might be said \lquote these are reflective, planful, thoughtful places, places where one can take stock\rquote , and these planful, thoughtful places bring together and (more or less unsuccessfully) seek to reconcile differen
t modes of ordering. (Law, 1994, 137)}
\par 
\par {\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 If you scratch the surface of what we tend to think of as the social,then we will find that this is materially hetegeneous. (Law, 1994, 139)}
\par 
\par {\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 To the extent that it is accomplished at all, reflexivity is a strategic effect generated by creating distinctions between materials. In other words, to practise reflexivity is to practise a series of strategies for generating differences in durability, an
d ordering the relationship between the materials so generated. And specifically, to monitor and to plan an order is to do three related things:}
\par {\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 1. to find ways of simulating and exploring the properties of the more durable in materials that are less durable;}
\par {\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 2. to find ways of making some materials more durable than others; and}
\par {\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 3. to find ways of linking the more durable to the less durable, such that the latter stand for and represent the former. (Law, 1994, 139)}
\par 
\par {\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 Paperwork, talk, visual depiction, models, computer simulations - all of these perform and instantiate the gradients that strain towards dualism. ... What\rquote s important is the jump from bits and pieces in one medium or form into bits and pieces in another, a
nother which is said to \lquote stand for\rquote  or \lquote speak on behalf of\rquote  the first; it\rquote s this jump that performs the strain towards dualism. (Law, 1994, 151-152)}
\par 
\par {\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 Representations, whatever their provenance, are always the product of ordering work. They\rquote re a part of ordering. And they are produced in ordering. (Law, 1994, 155)}
\par 
\par {\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 Rather, if there is self-reflexivity, consciousness, the formation of a dualist effect, this is because they are at one end of a gradient of materials. They\rquote re in a place where they deal with docile and tractable materials. (Law, 1994, 158)}
\par 
\par 
\par }