{\rtf1\ansi\deff1\adeflang1025
{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fprq2\fcharset0 Times New Roman{\*\falt Thorndale};}{\f1\fnil\fprq0\fcharset0 Arial;}{\f2\fnil\fprq0\fcharset0 Trebuchet MS;}{\f3\fswiss\fprq2\fcharset0 Trebuchet MS;}{\f4\fnil\fprq0\fcharset0 Arial;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;}
{\stylesheet{\s1\cf1{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe1033\loch\f1\fs24\lang255\snext1 Default;}
{\s2\sa120\cf1{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe1033\loch\f3\fs24\lang255\sbasedon1\snext2 Text body;}
{\s3\sa120\cf1{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe1033\loch\f2\fs24\lang255\sbasedon2\snext3 List;}
{\s4\sb120\sa120\cf1{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af1\afs20\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs20\langfe1033\loch\f2\fs20\lang255\i\sbasedon1\snext4 Caption;}
{\s5\cf1{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe1033\loch\f2\fs24\lang255\sbasedon1\snext5 Index;}
}
{\info{\comment StarWriter}{\vern6410}}\deftab720
{\*\pgdsctbl
{\pgdsc0\pgdscuse195\pgwsxn11905\pghsxn16837\marglsxn1134\margrsxn1134\margtsxn1134\margbsxn1134\pgdscnxt0 Default;}
{\pgdsc1\pgdscuse195\pgwsxn11905\pghsxn16837\marglsxn1134\margrsxn567\margtsxn567\margbsxn567\pgdscnxt1 HTML;}}
\paperh16837\paperw11905\margl1134\margr1134\margt1134\margb1134\sectd\sbknone\pgwsxn11905\pghsxn16837\marglsxn1134\margrsxn1134\margtsxn1134\margbsxn1134\ftnbj\ftnstart1\ftnrstcont\ftnnar\aenddoc\aftnrstcont\aftnstart1\aftnnrlc
\pard\plain \s2\sa120\cf1{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe1033\loch\f3\fs24\lang255 {\ltrch\loch\f3 Lazzarato, Maurizio, 'Immaterial Labour' eds. Hardt, Michael & Virno, Paolo, Radical Thought in Italy. A Potential Politics,  University of Minnesota Press, Minneapolis & London, 1996, 151-156}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f3 The concept of immaterial labor refers to two different aspects of labor. On the one hand, as regards the \ldblquote informational content" of the commodity, it refers directly to the changes taking place in workers' labor processes in big companies in the industria
l and tertiary sectors, where the skills involved in direct labor are increasingly skills involving cybernetics and computer control (and horizontal and Vertical communication). On the other hand, as regards the activity that produces the \ldblquote cultural content
" of the commodity, immaterial labor involves a series of activities that are not normally recognized as \ldblquote work"-in other words, the kinds of activities involved in defining and fixing cultural and artistic standards, fashions' tastes, consumer norms, and, 
more strategically, public opinion. 132}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f3 This immaterial labor constitutes itself in forms that are immediately collective, and we might say that it exists only in the form of networks and flows. The organization of the cycle of production of immaterial labor (because this is exactly what it is, 
once we abandon our factoryrist prejudices-a cycle of production) is not obviously apparent to the eye, because it is not defined by the four walls of a factory. The location in which it operates is outside in the society at large, at a territorial level t
hat we could call \ldblquote the basin of immaterial labor." 137}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f3 The quality of this kind of labor power is thus defined not only by its professional capacities (which make possible the construction of the cultural-informational content of the commodity), but also by its ability to "manage" its own activity and act as t
he coordinator of the immaterial labor of others (production and management of the cycle). 138}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f3 Behind the label of the independent "self-employed" worker, what we actually find is an intellectual proletarian, but who is recognized as such only by the employers who exploit him or her. 138,}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f3 The activation of both productive cooperation and the social relationship with the consumer is materialized within and by the process of communication. The role of immaterial Iabor is to promote continual innovation in the forms and conditions of communica
tion (and thus in work and consumption). It gives form to and materializes needs, the imaginary, consumer tastes, and so forth, and these products in turn become powerful producers of needs, images, and tastes. 138}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f3 The concept of immaterial labor presupposes and results in an enlargement of productive cooperation that even includes the produc- sion and reproduction of communication and hence of its most important contents: subjectivity. 140}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f3 The consumer is no longer limited to consuming commodities (destroying them in the act of consumption). On the contrary, his or her consumption should be productive in accordance to the necessary conditions and the new products.  Consumption is then first 
of all a consumption of information. Consumption is no Ionger only the \ldblquote realization\rdblquote  of a product, but a real and proper social process that for the moment is defined with the term  {\i communication}. 141}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f3 Immaterial labor continually creates and modifies the forms and conditions of communication, which in turn acts as the interface that negotiates the relationship between production and consumption. As I noted earlier, immaterial labor produces first and fo
remost a social relation - it produces not only commodities, but also the capital relation. 143}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f3 The process of social communication (and principal content, the production of subjectivity) becomes here directly productive  because in a certain way it \ldblquote produces\rdblquote  production. The process by which the \ldblquote social\rdblquote  (and what is even more social, that is, langu
age, communication, and so forth) becomes \ldblquote economic\rdblquote  has not yet been sufficiently studied. 143}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f3 Immaterial labor constitutes itself in immediately collective forms that exist as networks and flows. The subjugation of this form of cooperation and the \ldblquote use value\rdblquote  of these skills to capitalist logic does not take away the autonomy of the constitution an
d meaning of immaterial labor. 145}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f3 The \ldblquote ideological product\rdblquote  becomes in every respect a commodity. The term {\i ideological }does not characterize the product as a \ldblquote reflection\rdblquote  of reality, as false or true consciousness of reality. Ideological products produce, on the contrary, new stratificatio
ns of reality; they are the intersection where human power, knowledge, and action meet. New modes of seeing and knowing demand new technologies, and new technologies demand new forms of seeing and knowing. These ideological products are completely internal
 to the processes of the formation of social communication; that is, they are at once the results and the prerequisites of these processes. The ensemble of ideological products constitutes the human ideological environment. Ideological products are transfo
rmed into commodities without ever losing their specificity; that is {\i they are always addressed to someone, they are \ldblquote ideally signifying},\rdblquote  and thus they pose the problem of \ldblquote meaning.\rdblquote  145}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f3 The general public tends to become she model for the consumer (audience/client). The public (in the sense of the user-the reader, the music listener, the television audience) whom the author addresses has as such a double productive function. In the first 
place, as the addressee of the ideological product, the public ls a constitutive element of the production process. In the second place, the public is productive by means of the reception that gives the product \ldblquote a place in life\rdblquote  (in other words, integrates
 it into social communication) and allows it to live and evolve. {\i Reception is thus, from this point of view, a creative act }and an integrative part of the product. The transformation of the product into a commodity cannot abolish this double process of \ldblquote cr
eativity\rdblquote ; it must rather assume it as it is, and attempt to control it and subordinate it to its ouni values. 145}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f3 What the transformation of the product into a commodity cannot remove, then, is the {\i character of event}, the open process of creation that is established between immaterial labor and the public and organized by communication. 145}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f3 \~}
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par }