{\rtf1\ansi\deff3\adeflang1025
{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fprq2\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}{\f1\froman\fprq2\fcharset2 Symbol;}{\f2\fswiss\fprq2\fcharset0 Arial;}{\f3\froman\fprq2\fcharset128 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fswiss\fprq2\fcharset128 Arial;}{\f5\froman\fprq0\fcharset128 Bitstream Vera Serif;}{\f6\fnil\fprq2\fcharset128 Arial Unicode MS;}{\f7\fnil\fprq2\fcharset128 Tahoma;}{\f8\fnil\fprq0\fcharset128 Tahoma;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;}
{\stylesheet{\s0\snext0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\aspalpha\ltrpar\cf0\hich\af6\langfe1033\dbch\af7\afs24\lang1033\loch\f3\fs24\lang2057 Normal;}
{\s2\sbasedon16\snext15\ilvl1\outlinelevel1\sb240\sa120\keepn\i\b\hich\af6\dbch\af7\afs28\ai\ab\loch\f4\fs28 Heading 2;}
{\s15\sbasedon0\snext15\sb0\sa120 Text body;}
{\s16\sbasedon0\snext15\sb240\sa120\keepn\hich\af6\dbch\af7\afs28\loch\f4\fs28 Heading;}
{\s17\sbasedon15\snext17\sb0\sa120\dbch\af8 List;}
{\s18\sbasedon0\snext18\sb120\sa120\noline\i\dbch\af8\afs24\ai\fs24 Caption;}
{\s19\sbasedon0\snext19\noline\dbch\af8 Index;}
}{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1
{\listlevel\levelnfc0\leveljc0\levelstartat1\levelfollow0{\leveltext \'00;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi0\li0}
{\listlevel\levelnfc0\leveljc0\levelstartat1\levelfollow0{\leveltext \'00;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi0\li0}
{\listlevel\levelnfc0\leveljc0\levelstartat1\levelfollow0{\leveltext \'00;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi0\li0}
{\listlevel\levelnfc0\leveljc0\levelstartat1\levelfollow0{\leveltext \'00;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi0\li0}
{\listlevel\levelnfc0\leveljc0\levelstartat1\levelfollow0{\leveltext \'00;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi0\li0}
{\listlevel\levelnfc0\leveljc0\levelstartat1\levelfollow0{\leveltext \'00;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi0\li0}
{\listlevel\levelnfc0\leveljc0\levelstartat1\levelfollow0{\leveltext \'00;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi0\li0}
{\listlevel\levelnfc0\leveljc0\levelstartat1\levelfollow0{\leveltext \'00;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi0\li0}
{\listlevel\levelnfc0\leveljc0\levelstartat1\levelfollow0{\leveltext \'00;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi0\li0}\listid1}
}{\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}}{\info{\author abm abm}{\creatim\yr2007\mo10\dy8\hr11\min31}{\revtim\yr2009\mo4\dy1\hr15\min2}{\printim\yr0\mo0\dy0\hr0\min0}{\comment LibreOffice}{\vern3300}}\deftab709

{\*\pgdsctbl
{\pgdsc0\pgdscuse195\pgwsxn11905\pghsxn16837\marglsxn1134\margrsxn1134\pgdscnxt0 Default;}}
\formshade\paperh16837\paperw11905\margl1134\margr1134\margt1134\margb1134\sectd\sbknone\sectunlocked1\pgndec\pgwsxn11905\pghsxn16837\marglsxn1134\margrsxn1134\ftnbj\ftnstart1\ftnrstcont\ftnnar\aenddoc\aftnrstcont\aftnstart1\aftnnrlc
\pgndec\pard\plain \s15\sb0\sa120{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
\{Lazzarato, 2002 #625\}}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\aspalpha\ltrpar\cf0\hich\af6\langfe1033\dbch\af7\afs24\lang1033\loch\f3\fs24\lang2057\li720\ri0\lin720\rin0\fi-720{\hich\af5\dbch\af5\afs20\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs20\loch\f5
Lazzarato, M. }{\i\hich\af5\dbch\af5\afs20\ai\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs20\loch\f5
Puissances De L'invention : La Psychologie \uc2 \u201\'c3\'89conomique De Gabriel Tarde Contre L'\u233\'c3\'a9conomie Politique\uc1 }{\hich\af5\dbch\af5\afs20\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs20\loch\f5
. Paris: Emp\uc2 \u234\'c3\'aacheurs de penser en rond, 2002.\uc1 }
\par \pard\plain \s15\sb0\sa120{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
}
\par \pard\plain \s2\ilvl1\outlinelevel1\sb240\sa120\keepn\i\b\hich\af6\dbch\af7\afs28\ai\ab\loch\f4\fs28{\listtext\pard\plain  \tab}\ls1 \li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\tx0\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
introduction; multiplicity in economic phenomena}
\par \pard\plain \s15\sb0\sa120{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
C'est par l'affectionabilit\uc2 \u233\'c3\'a9, par le sentir pur, fonds commun de d\u233\'c3\'a9sirs et de croyances, que Tarde d\u233\'c3\'a9crit  la diff\u233\'c3\'a9rence \u225\'c3\'a1 la fois de nature et de degr\u233\'c3\'a9 entre les activit\u233\'c3\'a9s de creation et de reproduction. 21\uc1 }
\par \pard\plain \s2\ilvl1\outlinelevel1\sb240\sa120\keepn\i\b\hich\af6\dbch\af7\afs28\ai\ab\loch\f4\fs28{\listtext\pard\plain  \tab}\ls1 \li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\tx0\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Chapter 1; cooperation between brains and the virtual}
\par \pard\plain \s15\sb0\sa120{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
}
\par \pard\plain \s15\sb0\sa120{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
31 Action at a distance of minds - they imitate and invent}
\par \pard\plain \s15\sb0\sa120{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
organism is a society, not the other way around 33}
\par \pard\plain \s15\sb0\sa120{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
brain is a deterroritorialised body 35}
\par \pard\plain \s15\sb0\sa120{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
brain co-operation precedes and exceeds creation of value in capital through division of labour 38}
\par \pard\plain \s15\sb0\sa120{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
invention = cooperation, coproduction 39}
\par \pard\plain \s15\sb0\sa120{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
invention which does not diffuse has no value 42}
\par \pard\plain \s15\sb0\sa120{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Pour Tarde la conversation, la publicit\uc2 \u233\'c3\'a9, la communications, la presse, l'opinion publique, l'imitation-mode et l'imitation-coutume, les villes et leur <<densit\u233\'c3\'a9 sociale>>, etc., contribuent \uc1 }{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
\uc2 \u224\'c3\'a0\uc1 }{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
 la diffusion-propagation des croyances et des d\uc2 \u233\'c3\'a9sirs, des volont\u233\'c3\'a9s et des intelligences. 43\uc1 }
\par \pard\plain \s15\sb0\sa120{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
important passages on why publicity, media, conversation, press are not just about diffusion, but create new forms of invention 43-4. }
\par \pard\plain \s15\sb0\sa120{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Imitation is the canvas from which new inventions arise. 44}
\par \pard\plain \s15\sb0\sa120{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Hence, the social, affective, cognitive and communicational is included in the production of value}
\par \pard\plain \s15\sb0\sa120{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Contrast b/w production and reproduction 47 - based on active and passive forces}
\par \pard\plain \s15\sb0\sa120{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Contrast b/w Marx\uc3 \u8217\'e2\'80\'99s account of the production of value and Tardes 49-50:  invention is difference that propagates according to the desires and beliefs that constitute it. 50 In diffusion, it opposes itself and adapts itself  to other inventions: hence the differentiation of difference 50. \uc1 }
\par \pard\plain \s15\sb0\sa120{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Can only explain the productivity of capitalism through the capture of the dynamics of brains, not div of lab 51}
\par \pard\plain \s15\sb0\sa120{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
D&G\uc3 \u8217\'e2\'80\'99s version of Tarde: dx/dy of desires and affects produces invention 51-52\uc1 }
\par \pard\plain \s15\sb0\sa120{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
}
\par \pard\plain \s15\sb0\sa120{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
}
\par \pard\plain \s2\ilvl1\outlinelevel1\sb240\sa120\keepn\i\b\hich\af6\dbch\af7\afs28\ai\ab\loch\f4\fs28{\listtext\pard\plain  \tab}\ls1 \li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\tx0\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Chapter 2 opposition and sympathy}
\par \pard\plain \s2\ilvl1\outlinelevel1\sb240\sa120\keepn\i\b\hich\af6\dbch\af7\afs28\ai\ab\loch\f4\fs28{\listtext\pard\plain  \tab}\ls1 \li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\tx0\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Chapter 3  subjectivity, action work}
\par \pard\plain \s2\ilvl1\outlinelevel1\sb240\sa120\keepn\i\b\hich\af6\dbch\af7\afs28\ai\ab\loch\f4\fs28{\listtext\pard\plain  \tab}\ls1 \li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\tx0\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Chapter 4 wealth, knowledge, art}
\par \pard\plain \s15\sb0\sa120{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Impossible to oppose individual and society 129 because individual is a society  -  a multiplicity of relations;}
\par \pard\plain \s15\sb0\sa120{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
So what is important is the passage and reversibility between two socieities 130 - the individual and the social are differential actualisations of the multiplicity of relations that constitute cooperation between brains. 131}
\par \pard\plain \s15\sb0\sa120{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
*key point because it allows a critique of the individualism of GTD and at the same time, to situate its sociality.}
\par \pard\plain \s15\sb0\sa120{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Individual produces from below through infinitesimal belief and desires which imitate each other, combine and oppose - a multiplicity of imitative fluxes 132}
\par \pard\plain \s15\sb0\sa120{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
*again, a key point, because it helps explain the webby side of GTD}
\par \pard\plain \s15\sb0\sa120{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Therefore think action as neither free or constrained but as coming from a singular interaction of forces in combination and imitation. 134}
\par \pard\plain \s15\sb0\sa120{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
So not the sovereign individual, but a provisional achievenment constantly menaced by the play of forces that constitute it 137}
\par \pard\plain \s15\sb0\sa120{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
The monster as the model of subjectivation 141: complicated passage, but interesting because it includes a co-ordinating, centralising force, and a desire to 'invade the world', and }
\par \pard\plain \s15\sb0\sa120{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
*key ethical question here: what is the alternative? What would an ethics that takes this into account look like?}
\par \pard\plain \s15\sb0\sa120{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
C\uc3 \u8217\'e2\'80\'99est dans les m\uc2 \u233\'c3\'a9tamorphoses et les variations de l\uc3 \u8217\'e2\'80\'99action de subjectivation et non les m\uc2 \u233\'c3\'a9tamorphoese et les variations of valuer qu\uc3 \u8217\'e2\'80\'99il faut chercher la dynamique immanente du capitalisme 142\uc1 }
\par \pard\plain \s15\sb0\sa120{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Look for metamorphoses and variations in the action of subjectification rather than of value that need to examine in order to find out about capitalism. 142}
\par \pard\plain \s15\sb0\sa120{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
3 characteristics of action in Tarde \uc3 \u8211\'e2\'80\'93 important for locative media stuff, 142-3: collaborative, inventive, virtual/potentialising; then the critique of Arendt and Ranciere on the basis of the inter-cerebral 144-5; especially to avoid containing the economic acritically 146\uc1 }
\par \pard\plain \s15\sb0\sa120{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
}
\par \pard\plain \s2\ilvl1\outlinelevel1\sb240\sa120\keepn\i\b\hich\af6\dbch\af7\afs28\ai\ab\loch\f4\fs28{\listtext\pard\plain  \tab}\ls1 \li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\tx0\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Ch 5 representation belief}
\par \pard\plain \s15\sb0\sa120{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
211-212: imitation and invention as base of economic phenomena; all come from memory}
\par \pard\plain \s15\sb0\sa120{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
215 desire and belief  are the bifurcation of pure feeling }
\par \pard\plain \s15\sb0\sa120{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
218 life as difference inserting itself into necessity; living being as a sum of virtualities}
\par \pard\plain \s15\sb0\sa120{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
227 currents of imitation which meet, confront, repeat in the same manner between cells and between brains. In encoutering, these currents invent and constitute social quantities and values. The currents are attractive, associate forces provoking diverse arrangements. }
\par \pard\plain \s15\sb0\sa120{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
stuff on language 236-40 }
\par \pard\plain \s15\sb0\sa120{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
*could use by analogy for technology}
\par \pard\plain \s15\sb0\sa120{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
time as power of constitution, not measure 246}
\par \pard\plain \s15\sb0\sa120{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
reduction of action to work - neutralises memory  247}
\par \pard\plain \s15\sb0\sa120{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
}
\par \pard\plain \s2\ilvl1\outlinelevel1\sb240\sa120\keepn\i\b\hich\af6\dbch\af7\afs28\ai\ab\loch\f4\fs28{\listtext\pard\plain  \tab}\ls1 \li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\tx0\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Ch 6 invention, work, attention in cooperation}
\par \pard\plain \s15\sb0\sa120{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Principle of production in Tarde is memory, cooperation,  etc 250, not to an abstract notion of labour but to social labour, cooperation between brains. }
\par \pard\plain \s15\sb0\sa120{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
The whole spectrum from automatism to genius involves memory, but with different levels of intercalation. 251 cf Habermas or Arendt with their separations between work and action.. For Tarda a continuum between them. }
\par \pard\plain \s15\sb0\sa120{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Labour as intermediate between routine and invention 255}
\par \pard\plain \s15\sb0\sa120{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Split between manual and mental labour is not useful 255 in distinguising reproduction and invention}
\par \pard\plain \s15\sb0\sa120{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Discussion of the entrepreneur 256-7 in Schumpeter, and then Tarde's critique of the division of labour - it invents nothing because it provides no joy of cooperation. 259}
\par \pard\plain \s15\sb0\sa120{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Shifts between sensory-motor and intellectual memory, towards virtual cooperation between brains 260}
\par \pard\plain \s15\sb0\sa120{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Description of intercerebral work as relational activity - how this is the economy itself 261}
\par \pard\plain \s15\sb0\sa120{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Intercerebral work produces beliefs, desires, made out of habits, opinions, etc 262; not limited to symbolic manipulation because it mobilises subrepresentative forces and time; rather it uses 'attention' and memory before it can work on ideas. 262-3}
\par \pard\plain \s15\sb0\sa120{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
To capture or free attention - a key stake today 265}
\par \pard\plain \s15\sb0\sa120{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Important passage on distinction between living and dead labour, and how Tarde reconfigures it.  -  as living machine.  - there are automatisms in human and virtualities in the machine 265-6}
\par \pard\plain \s15\sb0\sa120{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Definitions of invention 268:  - coadaptation of imitative fluxes, a cooperation, even in an individual brain, but always a multitude of agents social and infinitesimal, and their ordinary ideas 270., 271 on the individual genius.as a mass of little consciousness 272}
\par \pard\plain \s15\sb0\sa120{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Invention as action as collaboration also suspends what is already individuated. 273 - puts inventor outside history, and into event.}
\par \pard\plain \s15\sb0\sa120{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Difference between diffusion in extension and diffusion intrinsic 274}
\par \pard\plain \s15\sb0\sa120{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Passage on control over imitation in Plato's republic 278-280}
\par \pard\plain \s15\sb0\sa120{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Imitation is memory itself - 281 - as habits in the body; as concepts, images, recollection in mind; 282: the largely uncs, preindividual, etc nature of these habits.}
\par \pard\plain \s15\sb0\sa120{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
284 comparison to habitus which uses imitation passively - it cannot account for invention}
\par \pard\plain \s15\sb0\sa120{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
293 the multiple man that Plato feared emerges in imitation-fashion world - free subjectivation and assujettissement result 294.}
\par \pard\plain \s15\sb0\sa120{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
*useful for GTD}
\par \pard\plain \s15\sb0\sa120{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Sociality tends to differentiate and demultiply 294}
\par \pard\plain \s2\ilvl1\outlinelevel1\sb240\sa120\keepn\i\b\hich\af6\dbch\af7\afs28\ai\ab\loch\f4\fs28{\listtext\pard\plain  \tab}\ls1 \li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\tx0\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
chapter 7 property}
\par \pard\plain \s15\sb0\sa120{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Contra possessive individualism that only knows subjects and objects, relations are primary 321}
\par \pard\plain \s15\sb0\sa120{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Objects and subjects are only crossing points, relays, etc in the flux 321}
\par \pard\plain \s15\sb0\sa120{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Alienation thru buying and selling is less important, and replaced by access 323 \uc3 \u8211\'e2\'80\'93 intercerebral cooperation\uc1 }
\par \pard\plain \s2\ilvl1\outlinelevel1\sb240\sa120\keepn\i\b\hich\af6\dbch\af7\afs28\ai\ab\loch\f4\fs28{\listtext\pard\plain  \tab}\ls1 \li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0\tx0\li0\ri0\lin0\rin0\fi0{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Chapter 8 politics of multiplicity}
\par \pard\plain \s15\sb0\sa120{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
359 Another concept of biopower: life becomes a stake not because power makes it into an object, but because the powers of coproduction and cooperation which found life tend to enlarge.  Distinctions between work and leisure, between zoe and bios tend to erase under the action of cooperation between brains. 360}
\par \pard\plain \s0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\aspalpha\ltrpar\cf0\hich\af6\langfe1033\dbch\af7\afs24\lang1033\loch\f3\fs24\lang2057{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
-----------------------}
\par \pard\plain \s15\sb0\sa120{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
brain co-operation precedes and exceeds creation of value in capital through division of labour 38}
\par \pard\plain \s15\sb0\sa120{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
}
\par \pard\plain \s15\sb0\sa120{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
important passages on why publicity, media, conversation, press are not just about diffusion, but create new forms of invention 43-4. }
\par \pard\plain \s15\sb0\sa120{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Imitation is the canvas from which new inventions arise. 44 Hence, the social, affective, cognitive and communicational is included in the production of value}
\par \pard\plain \s15\sb0\sa120{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Contrast b/w production and reproduction 47 - based on active and passive forces}
\par \pard\plain \s15\sb0\sa120{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Contrast b/w Marx\uc3 \u8217\'e2\'80\'99s account of the production of value and Tardes 49-50:  invention is difference that propagates according to the desires and beliefs that constitute it. 50 \uc1 }
\par \pard\plain \s15\sb0\sa120{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
In diffusion, it opposes itself and adapts itself  to other inventions: hence the differentiation of difference 50. }
\par \pard\plain \s15\sb0\sa120{\ul\ulc0\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Can only explain the productivity of capitalism through the capture of the dynamics of brains, not div of lab 51}
\par \pard\plain \s15\sb0\sa120{\ul\ulc0\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Impossible to oppose individual and society 129 because individual is a society  -  a multiplicity of relations;}
\par \pard\plain \s15\sb0\sa120{\ul\ulc0\rtlch \ltrch\loch
So what is important is the passage and reversibility between two socieities 130 - the individual and the social are differential actualisations of the multiplicity of relations that constitute cooperation between brains. 131}
\par \pard\plain \s15\sb0\sa120{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
*key point because it allows a critique of the individualism of GTD and at the same time, to situate its sociality.}
\par \pard\plain \s15\sb0\sa120{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Individual produces from below through infinitesimal belief and desires which imitate each other, combine and oppose - a multiplicity of imitative fluxes 132}
\par \pard\plain \s15\sb0\sa120{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
*again, a key point, because it helps explain the webby side of GTD }
\par \pard\plain \s15\sb0\sa120{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Therefore think action as neither free or constrained but as coming from a singular interaction of forces in combination and imitation. 134}
\par \pard\plain \s15\sb0\sa120{\chcbpat2\rtlch \ltrch\loch
So not the sovereign individual, but a provisional achievenment constantly menaced by the play of forces that constitute it 137}
\par \pard\plain \s15\sb0\sa120{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
The monster as the model of subjectivation 141: complicated passage, but interesting because it includes a co-ordinating, centralising force, and a desire to 'invade the world', and *key ethical question here: what is the alternative? What would an ethics that takes this into account look like?}
\par \pard\plain \s15\sb0\sa120{\chcbpat2\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Look for metamorphoses and variations in the action of subjectification rather than of value that need to examine in order to find out about capitalism. 142* economic psychologie against political economy \uc3 \u8211\'e2\'80\'93 should the paper be framed that way? the problem is to think the line of invention without submitting it to need, utility, or instrumental, but to reconfigurations of the partage between freedom and necessity? This would be a much stronger way to do it?\uc1 }
\par \pard\plain \s15\sb0\sa120{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Labour as intermediate between routine and invention 255}
\par \pard\plain \s15\sb0\sa120{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Split between manual and mental labour is not useful 255 in distinguishing reproduction and invention}
\par \pard\plain \s15\sb0\sa120{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Intercerebral work produces beliefs, desires, made out of habits, opinions, etc 262; not limited to symbolic manipulation because it mobilises subrepresentative forces and time; rather it uses 'attention' and memory before it can work on ideas. 262-3To capture or free attention - a key stake today 265}
\par \pard\plain \s15\sb0\sa120{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Important passage on distinction between living and dead labour, and how Tarde reconfigures it.  -  as living machine.  - there are automatisms in human and virtualities in the machine 265-6}
\par \pard\plain \s15\sb0\sa120{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Definitions of invention 268:  - coadaptation of imitative fluxes, a cooperation, even in an individual brain, but always a multitude of agents social and infinitesimal, and their ordinary ideas 270., 271 on the individual genius.as a mass of little consciousnesses 272}
\par \pard\plain \s15\sb0\sa120{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Invention as action as collaboration also suspends what is already individuated. 273 - puts inventor outside history, and into event.293 }
\par \pard\plain \s15\sb0\sa120{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
the multiple man that Plato feared emerges in imitation-fashion world - free subjectivation and assujettissement result 294.}
\par \pard\plain \s15\sb0\sa120\sb0\sa120{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
}
\par }