{\rtf1\ansi\deff1\adeflang1025
{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fprq2\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}{\f1\froman\fprq2\fcharset0 Times New Roman{\*\falt Thorndale};}{\f2\fswiss\fprq2\fcharset0 Arial;}{\f3\fswiss\fprq2\fcharset0 Trebuchet MS;}{\f4\froman\fprq2\fcharset0 Times New Roman{\*\falt Thorndale};}{\f5\fnil\fprq2\fcharset0 MS Mincho;}{\f6\fnil\fprq2\fcharset0 Tahoma;}{\f7\fnil\fprq0\fcharset0 Tahoma;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;}
{\stylesheet{\s1\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\aspalpha\rtlch\afs24\lang1025\ltrch\dbch\af1\langfe2057\hich\f1\fs24\lang2057\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\snext1 Normal;}
{\s2\sb240\sa120\keepn\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\aspalpha\rtlch\af6\afs28\lang1025\ltrch\dbch\af5\langfe2057\hich\f2\fs28\lang2057\loch\f2\fs28\lang2057\sbasedon1\snext3 Heading;}
{\s3\sa120\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af3\afs24\lang1025\ltrch\dbch\af3\langfe255\hich\f3\fs24\lang2057\loch\f3\fs24\lang2057\sbasedon7\snext3 Body Text;}
{\s4\sa120\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af3\afs24\lang1025\ltrch\dbch\af3\langfe255\hich\f3\fs24\lang2057\loch\f3\fs24\lang2057\sbasedon3\snext4 List;}
{\s5\sb120\sa120\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\aspalpha\rtlch\af7\afs24\lang1025\ai\ltrch\dbch\af1\langfe2057\hich\f1\fs24\lang2057\i\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\i\sbasedon1\snext5 caption;}
{\s6\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af3\afs24\lang1025\ltrch\dbch\af3\langfe255\hich\f3\fs24\lang2057\loch\f3\fs24\lang2057\sbasedon7\snext6 Index;}
{\s7\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af3\afs24\lang1025\ltrch\dbch\af3\langfe255\hich\f3\fs24\lang2057\loch\f3\fs24\lang2057\snext7 WW-Default;}
{\s8\sb120\sa120\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af3\afs20\lang1025\ai\ltrch\dbch\af3\langfe255\hich\f3\fs20\lang2057\i\loch\f3\fs20\lang2057\i\sbasedon7\snext8 caption;}
{\*\cs10\cf0\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang2057\ltrch\dbch\af1\langfe2057\hich\f1\fs24\lang2057\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057 Default Paragraph Font;}
}
{\info{\creatim\yr2008\mo7\dy2\hr9\min14}{\author mackenza}{\revtim\yr2008\mo7\dy2\hr9\min29}{\printim\yr0\mo0\dy0\hr0\min0}{\comment StarWriter}{\vern3100}}\deftab1250
{\*\pgdsctbl
{\pgdsc0\pgdscuse195\pgwsxn11905\pghsxn16837\marglsxn1134\margrsxn1134\margtsxn1134\margbsxn1134\pgdscnxt0 Standard;}}
{\*\pgdscno0}\paperh16837\paperw11905\margl1134\margr1134\margt1134\margb1134\sectd\sbknone\pgwsxn11905\pghsxn16837\marglsxn1134\margrsxn1134\margtsxn1134\margbsxn1134\ftnbj\ftnstart1\ftnrstcont\ftnnar\aenddoc\aftnrstcont\aftnstart1\aftnnrlc
\pard\plain \ltrpar\s7\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\ql\rtlch\afs24\lang1025\ltrch\dbch\af3\langfe255\hich\f3\fs24\lang2057\loch\f3\fs24\lang2057 
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s7\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\ql\rtlch\afs24\lang1025\ltrch\dbch\af3\langfe255\hich\f3\fs24\lang2057\loch\f3\fs24\lang2057 {\rtlch \ltrch\loch\f3\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 \{Lee, 2002 #1\}}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s7\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af3\afs24\lang1025\ltrch\dbch\af3\langfe255\hich\f3\fs24\lang2057\loch\f3\fs24\lang2057 {\rtlch \ltrch\loch\f3\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 Benjamin Lee and Edward LiPuma, 'Cultures of Circulation: The Imaginations of Modernity' Public Culture 14(1), Winter 2002: 191-213}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s7\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af3\afs24\lang1025\ltrch\dbch\af3\langfe255\hich\f3\fs24\lang2057\loch\f3\fs24\lang2057 
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s7\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af3\afs24\lang1025\ltrch\dbch\af3\langfe255\hich\f3\fs24\lang2057\loch\f3\fs24\lang2057 {\rtlch \ltrch\loch\f3\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 One result is that performativity has been considered a quintessentially cultural phenomenon that is tied to the creation of meaning, whereas circulation and exchange have been seen as processes that transmit meanings, rather than as constitutive acts in t
hemselves. Overcoming this bifurcation will involve rethinking circulation as a cultural phenomenon, as what we call cultures of circulation. 192}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s7\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af3\afs24\lang1025\ltrch\dbch\af3\langfe255\hich\f3\fs24\lang2057\loch\f3\fs24\lang2057 
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s7\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af3\afs24\lang1025\ltrch\dbch\af3\langfe255\hich\f3\fs24\lang2057\loch\f3\fs24\lang2057 {\rtlch \ltrch\loch\f3\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 Instead, recent work indicates that circulation is a cultural process with its own forms of abstraction, evaluation, and constraint, which are created by the interactions between specific types of circulating forms and the interpretive communities built ar
ound them. It is in these structured circulations that we identify cultures of circulation. 192}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s7\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af3\afs24\lang1025\ltrch\dbch\af3\langfe255\hich\f3\fs24\lang2057\loch\f3\fs24\lang2057 
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s7\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af3\afs24\lang1025\ltrch\dbch\af3\langfe255\hich\f3\fs24\lang2057\loch\f3\fs24\lang2057 {\rtlch \ltrch\loch\f3\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 The analytical problem is how to extend what has been a speech act-based notion of performativity to other discursively mediated practices, including ritual, economic practices, and even reading. What is interesting about performatives is that they go beyo
nd reference and description-indeed, they seem to create the very speech act they refer to. More important for our purposes in this essay, they allow for language to "objectify" its own praxis. Produced by their self-reflexive objectification, performative
 acts can thus be seen to be a presupposition for the very cultures of circulation of which they are a constitutive part. 193}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s7\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af3\afs24\lang1025\ltrch\dbch\af3\langfe255\hich\f3\fs24\lang2057\loch\f3\fs24\lang2057 
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s7\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af3\afs24\lang1025\ltrch\dbch\af3\langfe255\hich\f3\fs24\lang2057\loch\f3\fs24\lang2057 {\rtlch \ltrch\loch\f3\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 The performative dimension to each imaginary is located in a new form of collective agency through the coordination of specific social actions. 195}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s7\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af3\afs24\lang1025\ltrch\dbch\af3\langfe255\hich\f3\fs24\lang2057\loch\f3\fs24\lang2057 
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s7\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af3\afs24\lang1025\ltrch\dbch\af3\langfe255\hich\f3\fs24\lang2057\loch\f3\fs24\lang2057 {\rtlch \ltrch\loch\f3\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 The performative would thus be a special, creative type of indexical icon: a self-reflexive use of reference that  in creating a representation of an ongoing act, also enacts it. From the standpoint of linguistics, performatives involve a delicate calibrat
ion between indexical and nonindexical structures of language, or between what might be termed \'93subjective" (first-person) versus "objective" (third-person) perspectives on discourse. 195}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s7\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af3\afs24\lang1025\ltrch\dbch\af3\langfe255\hich\f3\fs24\lang2057\loch\f3\fs24\lang2057 
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s7\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af3\afs24\lang1025\ltrch\dbch\af3\langfe255\hich\f3\fs24\lang2057\loch\f3\fs24\lang2057 {\rtlch \ltrch\loch\f3\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 The extension of performativity beyond the level of the speech act to those of ritual, the interplay of genres, and even the process of reading provides a crucial insight to how self-reflexivity and circulation interact. The objectification of certain type
s of discursively mediated actions can provide the performative  basis for complex cultures of circulation. 195}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s7\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af3\afs24\lang1025\ltrch\dbch\af3\langfe255\hich\f3\fs24\lang2057\loch\f3\fs24\lang2057 
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s7\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af3\afs24\lang1025\ltrch\dbch\af3\langfe255\hich\f3\fs24\lang2057\loch\f3\fs24\lang2057 {\rtlch \ltrch\loch\f3\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 Production-driven competition harnessed  innovation as the integral mechanism for driving capital; a circulation-based capitalism harnesses technology for the extraction and manipulation of data that can then be converted into quantifiable measures of risk
. The contemporary objectification, calculation, and distribution of risk rely on larger and more accurate data sets and increased computer power, all driven by competition among mathematically sophisticated quantitative experts. This is tightening the rel
ation between technology and the "value-free" development of finance capital. These new information technologies demand a deep infrastructure of technology and talent, a development that is resulting in a global rush for technological training and educatio
n paralleling the expansion of global equity markets. 210}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s7\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af3\afs24\lang1025\ltrch\dbch\af3\langfe255\hich\f3\fs24\lang2057\loch\f3\fs24\lang2057 
\par }