{\rtf1\ansi\deff0\adeflang1025
{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fprq2\fcharset0 Times New Roman{\*\falt Thorndale};}{\f1\froman\fprq2\fcharset0 Times New Roman{\*\falt Thorndale};}{\f2\fnil\fprq2\fcharset0 HG Mincho Light J;}{\f3\fnil\fprq2\fcharset0 Arial Unicode MS;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue128;\red128\green128\blue128;}
{\stylesheet{\s1{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af2\afs24\langfe255\loch\f0\fs24\lang2057\snext1 Default;}
{\s2\sa120{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af2\afs24\langfe255\loch\f0\fs24\lang2057\sbasedon1\snext2 Text body;}
{\s3\sa120{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af2\afs24\langfe255\loch\f0\fs24\lang2057\sbasedon2\snext3 Table Contents;}
{\*\cs5\cf2\ul\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af2\afs24\langfe255\loch\f0\fs24\lang2057 Internet Link;}
}
{\info{\comment StarWriter}{\vern6380}}\deftab1250
{\*\pgdsctbl
{\pgdsc0\pgdscuse195\pgwsxn11905\pghsxn16837\marglsxn1134\margrsxn1134\margtsxn1134\margbsxn1134\pgdscnxt0 Default;}}
\paperh16837\paperw11905\margl1134\margr1134\margt1134\margb1134\sectd\sbknone\pgwsxn11905\pghsxn16837\marglsxn1134\margrsxn1134\margtsxn1134\margbsxn1134\ftnbj\ftnstart1\ftnrstcont\ftnnar\aenddoc\aftnrstcont\aftnstart1\aftnnrlc
\pard\plain \s3\sa120{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af2\afs24\langfe255\loch\f0\fs24\lang2057{\ltrch\loch\f0{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "http://www.technologyreview.com/magazine/sep01" }{\fldrslt \*\cs5\cf2\ul\rtlch\ltrch\dbch\loch\f0\fs24\lang2057 Under Biology's Hood. Q&A with Leroy Hood}}}
\par 
\par {\ltrch\loch\f0{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "http://www.technologyreview.com/magazine/sep01" }{\fldrslt \*\cs5\cf2\ul\rtlch\ltrch\dbch\loch\f0\fs24\lang2057 http://www.technologyreview.com/magazine/sep01}}}
\par 
\par \pard\plain \s3\sa120{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af2\afs24\langfe255\loch\f0\fs24\lang2057 
\par {\ltrch\loch\f0 There were three things that stood out in my mind about that first meeting. One was the enormous technological challenges the Human Genome Project presented, both in sequencing and mapping, but also in computation and analysis. The second thing that was ex
citing was to see how it would transform biology and medicine. I was an advocate for this project, and was there ever bitter opposition. Hostile, aggressive and negative interactions resulted. And the reason for that, which is the third thing that really i
mpressed me, is the genome introduced to biology a completely new approach, which I've since come to call "discovery science." It's the idea that you take an object and you define all its elements and you create a database of information quite independent 
of the more conventional hypothesis-driven view.}
\par \pard\plain \s2\sa120{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af2\afs24\langfe255\loch\f0\fs24\lang2057 
\par \pard\plain \s3\sa120{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af2\afs24\langfe255\loch\f0\fs24\lang2057 {\ltrch\loch\f0 First, discovery science is now an accepted concept. Second, the human genome has provided us with a genetics parts list for humans and the other model organisms whose genomes have been sequenced. We must do biology to figure out how these parts function, 
and now we have them\emdash genes, control sequences, etc.\emdash in databases. Third, the Human Genome Project has given us access to human variability, the genetic variations which make humans different from one another\emdash different in physiology and different in disease
 predisposition. And it's in this arena that medicine will be utterly transformed over the next 20 years or so.}
\par 
\par {\ltrch\loch\f0 That is basically what systems biology is about. It is taking a biological system, identifying its elements, perturbing it in a model system, capturing information at the DNA, RNA, protein, protein interaction, informational pathway and informational netwo
rk levels, and integrating and graphically displaying [that information], and then developing mathematical models that will describe the structure and behavior of the system.}
\par 
\par {\ltrch\loch\f0 It allows you to understand the system and how it functions. If you are a pharmaceutical company, it suggests that there are critical points in these informational networks at which one can begin to attack the system, manipulate it, circumvent the limitati
ons of defective genes. We are at the earliest stages of learning how to do mathematical formulations. Once we do, I think it will transform how one identifies drug targets, how one deals with potential side effects of drugs, and how one determines whether
 a particular drug that has already been approved might do something else that is even more interesting}
\par 
\par {\ltrch\loch\f0 At the same time, we are attempting to develop software that is good for the visualization of biological complexity, software that can automate the process of building and optimizing the models. Obviously, we have to develop computational tools that will c
apture information from each of these different technologies.}
\par \pard\plain \s3\sa120{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af2\afs24\langfe255\loch\f0\fs24\lang2057 {\ltrch\loch\f0 http://www.technologyreview.com/magazine/sep01}
\par }