{\rtf1\ansi\deff1\adeflang1025
{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fprq2\fcharset0 Times New Roman{\*\falt Thorndale};}{\f1\fnil\fprq0\fcharset0 Trebuchet MS;}{\f2\fnil\fprq0\fcharset0 Trebuchet MS;}{\f3\fnil\fprq0\fcharset0 Arial;}{\f4\fnil\fprq2\fcharset0 HG Mincho Light J;}{\f5\fnil\fprq2\fcharset0 Arial Unicode MS;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;}
{\stylesheet{\s1{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af4\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033\snext1 Default;}
{\s2\sa120{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af4\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033\sbasedon1\snext2 Text body;}
{\s3\sa120{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af4\afs24\langfe255\loch\fs24\lang1033\sbasedon2\snext3 List;}
{\s4\sb120\sa120{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\afs20\lang255\ai\ltrch\dbch\af4\afs20\langfe255\ai\loch\fs20\lang1033\i\sbasedon1\snext4 Caption;}
{\s5{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af4\afs24\langfe255\loch\fs24\lang1033\sbasedon1\snext5 Index;}
}
{\info{\comment StarWriter}{\vern6410}}\deftab1250
{\*\pgdsctbl
{\pgdsc0\pgdscuse195\pgwsxn11905\pghsxn16837\marglsxn1134\margrsxn1134\margtsxn1134\margbsxn1134\pgdscnxt0 Default;}}
\paperh16837\paperw11905\margl1134\margr1134\margt1134\margb1134\sectd\sbknone\pgwsxn11905\pghsxn16837\marglsxn1134\margrsxn1134\margtsxn1134\margbsxn1134\ftnbj\ftnstart1\ftnrstcont\ftnnar\aenddoc\aftnrstcont\aftnstart1\aftnnrlc
\pard\plain \s2\sa120{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af4\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033{\ltrch\loch\f3{\i0\f3 Lewitt, Sol 'Paragraphs on Conceptual Art', ed Alberro, Alexander & Stimson, Blake, {\i Conceptual Art: a Critical Anthology, }\~(MIT Press, Cambridge, Massachusetts, 1999)}}
\par \pard\plain \s2\sa120{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af4\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033 {\ltrch\loch\f1 the idea of concept is the most important part of the work. ... The idea becomes a machine that makes the art' (Lewitt, 1999, 12)}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f1 It takes a good artist to use new materials and make them into a work of art. The danger is, I think, in making the physicality of the material so important that it becomes the idea of the work. (15)}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f1 Conceptual art is not necessarily logical. The logic of a piece of series of pieces is a device that is used at times only be ruined. Logic may be used to camouflage the real intent of the artist, to lull the view into the belief that he understands the wo
rk, or to infer a prardoxical situation (such as logic vs. illogic) (13)}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f1 What the work of art looks like isn't too important. It has to look lie something if it has physical form. No matter what form it may finally have it must begin with an idea. It is the process of conception and realization with which the artists is concern
ed. (13)}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f1 {\*\bkmkstart DDE_LINK1}{\*\bkmkend DDE_LINK1}To work with a plan that is pre-set is one way of avoiding subjectivity. It also obviates the necessity of designing each work in turn. The plan would design the work. Some plans would require millions of variations, and some a limited number, but both are
 finite. Other plans imply infinity. In each case, however, the artist would select the basic form and rules that would govern the solution of the problem. After that the fewer decisions made in the course of completing the work, the better. This eliminate
s the arbitrary, the capricious, and the subjective as mcuh as possible. (13)}
\par 
\par }