Celia Lury, Consumer Culture Polity Press Celia Lury 1996
One of the most important ways in which people relate to each other socially is through the mediation of things. Material culture is the name given to the study of these person-thing relationships' it is the study of things- or objects-in-use.
According to Appadurai, every society lays out culturally and legally approved 'paths' for the circulation of objects; conditions are set about what objects may be exchanged, for what, by whom, when and under what conditions. 26
However, Lee also suggests that one of the most significant developments in the commodity-form over recent years is the transition in production from material to experiential commodities. 62
Pleasure is no longer given by specific activities or associated with particular sensations; indeed, it is no longer localized or focused but instead is a potential aspect or dimension of all experiences. This potential is to be found in the imagination; an individual learns to substitute imaginary for real stimulus and by self-consciously creating and manipulating illusions or imaginary experiences or emotions in daydreams and fantasies constructs his or her own pleasurable environment. 73
This stylization or aestheticization is what defines consumer culture as a contemporary kind of material culture. It refers to the production, design, making and use of goods, that is,  their design, making and use as if they were works of art images or signs and as part of the self-conscious creation- of lifestyle. It therefore includes the design emphasis on the surface appearance of goods thernselves, the importance of images in related packaging,  marketing and advertising and the thematization of their context of presentation and display in specialized sites of purchase and consumption. 77
This indicates that the development of consulter culture must be seen to have a number of interlocking histories, and cannot be understood in relation to a single overarching explanation. 155
[T]racing the social and cultural movement of objects leads to a focus on the dynamic, processual aspects of material culture, pointing not simply to the small-scale shifts in an object's meaning as it traverses circuits of exchange, but also to broader transformations in the organization of material culture itself. 26
