{\rtf1\ansi\deff1\adeflang1025
{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fprq2\fcharset0 Times New Roman{\*\falt Thorndale};}{\f1\froman\fprq0\fcharset0 Arial;}{\f2\fnil\fprq0\fcharset0 Trebuchet MS;}{\f3\froman\fprq0\fcharset0 Arial;}{\f4\fswiss\fprq0\fcharset0 Arial;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;}
{\stylesheet{\s1\sb283\sa170\cf1\sl360\slmult1\rtlch\lang255\ltrch\dbch\langfe1033\snext1 Default;}
{\s2\sa120\cf1\sl360\slmult1\rtlch\lang255\ltrch\dbch\langfe1033\sbasedon1\snext2 Text body;}
{\s3\sa120\cf1\sl360\slmult1\rtlch\lang255\ltrch\dbch\langfe1033\loch\f2\sbasedon2\snext3 List;}
{\s4\sb120\sa120\cf1\sl360\slmult1\rtlch\afs20\lang255\ltrch\dbch\afs20\langfe1033\loch\f2\fs20\i\sbasedon1\snext4 Caption;}
{\s5\sb283\sa170\cf1\sl360\slmult1\rtlch\lang255\ltrch\dbch\langfe1033\loch\f2\sbasedon1\snext5 Index;}
{\*\cs7\cf1\rtlch\lang255\ltrch\dbch\langfe1033 Numbering Symbols;}
}{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1
{\listlevel\levelnfc0\leveljc0\levelstartat7\levelfollow2{\leveltext \'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\cf1\langfe1033\fi-283\li283}\listid1}
}{\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls0}}

{\info{\comment StarWriter}{\vern6410}}\deftab720
{\*\pgdsctbl
{\pgdsc0\pgdscuse195\pgwsxn11905\pghsxn16837\marglsxn1134\margrsxn1134\margtsxn1134\margbsxn1134\pgdscnxt0 Default;}}
\paperh16837\paperw11905\margl1134\margr1134\margt1134\margb1134\sectd\sbknone\pgwsxn11905\pghsxn16837\marglsxn1134\margrsxn1134\margtsxn1134\margbsxn1134\ftnbj\ftnstart1\ftnrstcont\ftnnar\aenddoc\aftnrstcont\aftnstart1\aftnnrlc
\pard\plain \s1\sb283\sa170\cf1\sl360\slmult1\rtlch\lang255\ltrch\dbch\langfe1033\sl480\slmult1\rtlch\af4\afs20\ltrch\dbch\af4\afs20\loch\f4\fs21 {\ltrch\loch\f4 Michael Lynch {\i Scientific practice and ordinary action : ethnomethodology and social studies of science, }Cambridge University Press 1993}
\par \pard\plain \s1\sb283\sa170\cf1\sl360\slmult1\rtlch\lang255\ltrch\dbch\langfe1033\rtlch\af4\afs20\ltrch\dbch\af4\afs20\loch\f4\fs21 {\ltrch\loch\f4 Although the sciences may not be defined by unique sets of language games, particular epistemic themes are recurrently associated with the discourses about and in the various disciplines. 280}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f4 Some of these \ldblquote epistopics"... include familiar themes from epistemology and general methodology: observation, description, replication, testing, measurement, explanation, proof, and so on. They are the common terms of a lingua franco that seemingly "transc
ends" the various specialized disciplines; they provide headings, points of contact, and contentious topics in an interdisciplinary discourse among historians, philosophers, and sociologists of science. 280}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f4 The aim of such investigation would not be to develop general models of scientific and ordinary activity but to explain how a general epistemic theme is a part of a local complex of activities. 281}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f4 Epistopics are classic epistemological themes, in name only. Once named as - or locally identified as a competent case of - observing, measuring, or representing, an activity and its material traces can be shown to be governed by a set of rules, a body of 
knowledge, a method, or a set of normative standards associated with the particular theme. But once we assume that nominal coherence guarantees nothing about localized praxis, we can begin to examine how an activity comes to identify itself as an observati
on, a measurement, or whatever without assuming from the outset that the local achievement of such activities can be described under a rule or definition. 281 282}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f4 Latour invokes what he calls the \ldblquote immutable\rdblquote  and \ldblquote mobile\rdblquote  properties of mechanically reproduced texts to explain the growth of science and the stabilization of its knowledge. ...}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f4 From an ethnomethodological standpoint, however, such an explanation still retains a \ldblquote gap in the literature.\rdblquote  This gap pertains to the way that any trace, sign, inscription, representation, graphism, and citation is originally, and always, an expression, i
ndication, icon, or moment of articulation in some practice. 291}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f4 transition from life-world to system thus comes down to the construction of analytically transparent chains of signifiers that subsume local practices in delocalized networks. 292}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f4 Ethnomethodology challenges this semiotic approach on at least two fronts, first by denying the formal equivalence between literary representations and life-world activities and second by treating the practical equivalence between literary representations 
and lived activities as itself a local and reflexive achievement that betrays any attempt to recover it with a general program of formal analysis. 292}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f4 Instead, he is insisting that both elements of the Lebenswelt pair - the proof account and the lived work of proving - are necessary for an adequate understanding of the proof as such. Otherwise, the proof account becomes an empty textual figure about whic
h many things can be said, but without recovering how it stands in and as the proof. 294}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f4 To analyze a document's use does not discount its referential functions, but it does demolish suppositions about the essential difference between formulations of \ldblquote things\rdblquote  and the formulations of \ldblquote our activities.\rdblquote  192}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f4 [W]e can see that references to things act simultaneously as reference to (and within) activities. The participants do not act like talking machines emitting nouns that correspond to pictorial details. (193)}
\par 
\par {\ltrch\loch\f4 1. Begin by taking up one or more of the epistopics. 300}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f4 2. Search for primitive examples. 300 }
\par {\ltrch\loch\f4 3. Follow the epistopics around and investigate actual cases in detail. 301}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f4 4. Investigate each case in accordance with a unique adequacy requirement. 302}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f4 5. Apply ethnomethodological indifference to the fact of the existence of science. 303 For epistopics like observation, measurement, and explanation, the task is thus to construct exercises in which readers are led to conduct observations, explanations - o
r, at the very least, to follow along vicariously as the accomplishments of others are elaborated in detail - so that they are able to examine the relevant performances. 303}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f4 6. Use a "normal science" methodology. 304}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f4 "Normal science's in this sense uses ordinary modes of observing, describing, comparing, reading, and questioning, and its constituent activities are expressed in vernacular terms. 305 304}
\par \pard\plain {\listtext\pard\plain \li283\ri0\fi-283\sb283\sa170\cf1\f4\fs21\f4\fs20\langfe1033\f4\fs20\sl360\slmult1\cf1\langfe1033 7.}\ilvl0 \s1\sb283\sa170\cf1\sl360\slmult1\rtlch\lang255\ltrch\dbch\langfe1033\li283\ri0\fi-283\ls0\rtlch\af4\afs20\ltrch\dbch\af4\afs20\loch\f4\fs21 {\ltrch\loch\f4 Relate the "findings" back to the classic literatures. The epistopics are collecting rubrics, but particular "findings" about their situated enactment are likely to hold differentiating and therapeutic implications for classic epistemological and methodolo
gical versions of observation, measurement, and the like. 305 306}
\par \pard\plain \s2\sa120\cf1\sl360\slmult1\rtlch\lang255\ltrch\dbch\langfe1033\rtlch\af4\afs20\ltrch\dbch\af4\afs20\loch\f4\fs21{\ltrch\loch\f4{\i0  Moreover, the \ldblquote contexts\rdblquote  implicated by such terms were themselves variable, as they included the placement of particular words in phrase structures, different aspects of time and place implicated by utterances, and wide range of presuppositions about typi
cal and singular features of the scenes in which these expressions were actually or imaginably uttered' (Lynch, 1993, 19).}}
\par \pard\plain \s1\sb283\sa170\cf1\sl360\slmult1\rtlch\lang255\ltrch\dbch\langfe1033\rtlch\af4\afs20\ltrch\dbch\af4\afs20\loch\f4\fs21 
\par }