{\rtf1\ansi\deff1\adeflang1025
{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fprq2\fcharset0 Nimbus Roman No9 L{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f1\fnil\fprq0\fcharset0 Trebuchet MS;}{\f2\fnil\fprq2\fcharset0 HG Mincho Light J{\*\falt msmincho};}{\f3\fnil\fprq0\fcharset0 Arial;}{\f4\fnil\fprq0\fcharset0 Trebuchet MS;}{\f5\fnil\fprq2\fcharset0 HG Mincho Light J{\*\falt msmincho};}{\f6\fnil\fprq2\fcharset0 Nimbus Sans L{\*\falt Arial};}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;}
{\stylesheet{\s1{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af5\langfe255\hich\f1\fs24\lang2057\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\snext1 Normal;}
{\s2\sb240\sa120\keepn{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af6\afs28\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af2\langfe255\hich\f3\fs28\lang2057\loch\f3\fs28\lang2057\sbasedon1\snext3 Heading;}
{\s3\sa120\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\langfe255\hich\fs24\lang2057\loch\fs24\lang2057\sbasedon1\snext3 Body Text;}
{\s4\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\langfe255\hich\fs24\lang2057\loch\fs24\lang2057\sbasedon3\snext4 List;}
{\s5\sb120\sa120\rtlch\afs20\lang255\ai\ltrch\dbch\af1\langfe255\hich\f1\fs20\lang2057\i\loch\f1\fs20\lang2057\i\sbasedon1\snext5 caption;}
{\s6\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\langfe255\hich\f1\fs24\lang2057\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\sbasedon1\snext6 Index;}
}
{\info{\creatim\yr2005\mo10\dy15\hr11\min49}{\revtim\yr2005\mo10\dy15\hr13\min19}{\printim\yr1601\mo1\dy1\hr0\min0}{\comment StarWriter}{\vern6800}}\deftab1250
{\*\pgdsctbl
{\pgdsc0\pgdscuse195\pgwsxn11905\pghsxn16837\marglsxn1134\margrsxn1134\margtsxn1134\margbsxn1134\pgdscnxt0 Standard;}}
{\*\pgdscno0}\paperh16837\paperw11905\margl1134\margr1134\margt1134\margb1134\sectd\sbknone\pgwsxn11905\pghsxn16837\marglsxn1134\margrsxn1134\margtsxn1134\margbsxn1134\ftnbj\ftnstart1\ftnrstcont\ftnnar\aenddoc\aftnrstcont\aftnstart1\aftnnrlc
\pard\plain \ltrpar\s1{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\ql\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af5\langfe255\hich\fs24\lang2057\loch\fs24\lang2057 {\rtlch \ltrch\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 \{Manovich, 2001 #28\}}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s1{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\ql\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af5\langfe255\hich\f1\fs24\lang2057\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057 {\rtlch \ltrch\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 Manovich, Lev {\i The Language of New Media, }MIT Press, 2000}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s3\sa120\ql\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\langfe255\hich\fs24\lang2057\loch\fs24\lang2057 {\rtlch \ltrch\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 Yet another feature of the new media field that unites it with big industry is the strict adherence to various hardware and software standards. (15)}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s3\sa120\ql\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\langfe255\hich\fs24\lang2057\loch\fs24\lang2057 {\rtlch \ltrch\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 In summary, the computer layer and the cultural layer influence each other. To use another concept from new media, we can say that they are being composited together. (46)}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s3\sa120\ql\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\langfe255\hich\fs24\lang2057\loch\fs24\lang2057 {\rtlch \ltrch\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 In new media lingo, to \'93transcode\'94 something is to translate it into another format. Teh computerization of culture gradually accomplishes similar transcoding in relation to all cultural categories and concepts. That is, cultural categories and concepts ar
e substituted, on the level of meaning and/or language, by new ones that derive from the computer's ontology, epistemology and pragmatics. New media thus acts as a forerunner of this more general process of cultural reconceptualization. (47)}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s3\sa120\ql\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\langfe255\hich\fs24\lang2057\loch\fs24\lang2057 {\rtlch \ltrch\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 the most fundamental quality of new media that has no historical precedent - programmability}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s3\sa120\ql\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\langfe255\hich\fs24\lang2057\loch\fs24\lang2057 {\rtlch \ltrch\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 To understand the logic of new media, we need to turn to computer science. It is there that we may expect to find the new terms, categories, and operations that characterize media that became programmable. {\i From media studies, we move to something that can 
be called \'93software studies\'94 - from media theory to software theory. }The principle of transcoding is one way to start thinking about software theory. Another way ... is to use concepts from computer science as categories of new media theory. (48)}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s3\sa120\ql\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\langfe255\hich\fs24\lang2057\loch\fs24\lang2057 {\rtlch \ltrch\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 Programming involves altering the linear flow of data through control structures, such as "if/then" and "repeat/while"; the loop is the most elementary of these control structures (189)}
\par }