{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f1\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0604020202020204}Arial;}
{\f28\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0603020202020204}Trebuchet MS;}{\f33\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f34\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f36\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}
{\f37\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\f38\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\f39\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\f40\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}
{\f41\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Arial CE;}{\f42\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Arial Cyr;}{\f44\fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Arial Greek;}{\f45\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Arial Tur;}{\f46\fswiss\fcharset177\fprq2 Arial (Hebrew);}
{\f47\fswiss\fcharset178\fprq2 Arial (Arabic);}{\f48\fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Arial Baltic;}{\f257\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Trebuchet MS CE;}{\f261\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Trebuchet MS Tur;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;
\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;
\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{
\s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\f1\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 1;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}}{\info
{\title On Distribution, Drift and the Electronic Medical Record Some Tools for a Sociology of the Formal}{\author adrian  mackenzie}{\operator adrian  mackenzie}{\creatim\yr2001\mo7\dy2\hr16\min29}{\revtim\yr2001\mo8\dy28\hr14\min6}{\version4}{\edmins5}
{\nofpages2}{\nofwords401}{\nofchars2289}{\nofcharsws2811}{\vern8247}}\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\horzdoc\dghspace120\dgvspace120\dghorigin1701\dgvorigin1984\dghshow0\dgvshow3
\jcompress\viewkind4\viewscale100\nolnhtadjtbl \fet0\sectd \linex0\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang
{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7
\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\sb240\sl360\slmult1
\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\f28\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\langnp1033 On Distribution, Drift and the Electronic Medical Record. Some Tools for a Sociology of the Formal, Marc Berg, 141-156

\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\nowidctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\f1\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Proceedings of the Fifth European Conference on Computer Supported Cooperative Work
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\sb240\sl360\slmult1\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\f1\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\langnp1033 
Edited by John A. Hughes Wolfgang Prinz Tom Rodden Kjeld Schmidt KLUWER ACADEMIC PUBL,ISHERS DORDRECHT / BOSTON / LONDON 1997}{\f28\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\langnp1033 
\par 
\par [M]odels of the work, and/or through the processing of input into
 output formal tools are attributed central roles in organizing work within just about any modern workplace. What is it that these tools do in practice? How do they add to or interfere in the work performed? Answers to these questions are highly relevant 
f
or all those who believe that technology design might be improved through theoretical insight into the processes of everyday work. Yet any answer has to sail a risky course between either granting too much power and self-sufficiency to the tool at the exp
ense of the workers (and thus replicating the rationalist discourses of \lquote 
naive formalists' (Star, 1995)) or overly stressing the versatile and creative skill of the human workers versus the 'rigidity' of the formal tool. Both alternatives overlook how it is
 in the interrelation of the tool's functioning with the human workers' work that new potentialities emerge. 141-142
\par Only as part of a concrete work practice does a formal tool come to life. By itself it does not do anything: 142
\par To take this point further, the capacities and characteristics that formalists and their opponents attribute to the formal tool or to a human agent appear to be highly distributed.2 145
\par Zooming in on the way tool and work practice are interwoven, the distributed nature of the tasks
 comes into view - and thereby the way control and responsibility are transformed and dispersed over the heterogeneous assembly. We witness a myriad of little powers, together exhibiting capacities which the formalists would want to grant to the Formal to
ol, and their opponents would like to keep apart for the Human. The formal tools themselves are infinitely less powerful than the former would argue - but infinitely more than the latter claim. 147
\par Actual machines-in-use are not Machines, and instrumental reason is not what makes these hybrids tick. 148
\par 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f1\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\langnp1033 Humans are not pitted against the formal: the tinkering activity is djrected at mending the drift in all juxtaposed elements. In a
ddition. speaking about humans \lquote saving' or \lquote repairing' the formal tool re-installs the human in a position of control and oversight, and that is not what we encounter here. 151
\par 
\par The generative power of formal tools, then, lies in the very existence of the gap between the workpractice and its formal representation. Through deleting detail the map is functional in tracking a route between distant sites. 153
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\sb240\sl360\slmult1\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f28\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\langnp1033 
\par }}