{\rtf1\ansi\deff1\adeflang1025
{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fprq2\fcharset0 Times New Roman{\*\falt Thorndale};}{\f1\fnil\fprq0\fcharset0 Trebuchet MS;}{\f2\fnil\fprq0\fcharset0 Trebuchet MS;}{\f3\fnil\fprq0\fcharset0 Arial;}{\f4\fnil\fprq0\fcharset2 StarSymbol;}{\f5\fswiss\fprq2\fcharset0 Trebuchet MS;}{\f6\fnil\fprq2\fcharset0 HG Mincho Light J;}{\f7\fswiss\fprq0\fcharset0 RealpageGRO3;}{\f8\fswiss\fprq0\fcharset0 RealpagePER1;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;}
{\stylesheet{\s1\cf0\rtlch\af1\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af6\loch\lang255\snext1 Default;}
{\s2\sa120\cf0\rtlch\af1\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af6\loch\lang255\sbasedon1\snext2 Text body;}
{\s3\sa120\cf0\rtlch\af1\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af6\loch\lang255\sbasedon2\snext3 List;}
{\s4\sb120\sa120\cf0\rtlch\af1\afs20\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af6\afs20\loch\fs20\lang255\i\sbasedon1\snext4 Caption;}
{\s5\cf0\rtlch\af1\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af6\loch\lang255\sbasedon1\snext5 Index;}
{\s6\sb240\sa120\keepn\cf0\rtlch\af1\afs28\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs28\loch\f3\fs28\lang255\sbasedon1\snext2 Heading;}
{\*\cs8\cf0\rtlch\af4\afs18\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af4\afs18\langfe255\loch\f4\fs18\lang2057 RTF_Num 2 1;}
{\*\cs9\cf0\rtlch\af4\afs18\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af4\afs18\langfe255\loch\f4\fs18\lang2057 RTF_Num 2 2;}
{\*\cs10\cf0\rtlch\af4\afs18\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af4\afs18\langfe255\loch\f4\fs18\lang2057 RTF_Num 2 3;}
{\*\cs11\cf0\rtlch\af4\afs18\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af4\afs18\langfe255\loch\f4\fs18\lang2057 RTF_Num 2 4;}
{\*\cs12\cf0\rtlch\af4\afs18\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af4\afs18\langfe255\loch\f4\fs18\lang2057 RTF_Num 2 5;}
{\*\cs13\cf0\rtlch\af4\afs18\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af4\afs18\langfe255\loch\f4\fs18\lang2057 RTF_Num 2 6;}
{\*\cs14\cf0\rtlch\af4\afs18\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af4\afs18\langfe255\loch\f4\fs18\lang2057 RTF_Num 2 7;}
{\*\cs15\cf0\rtlch\af4\afs18\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af4\afs18\langfe255\loch\f4\fs18\lang2057 RTF_Num 2 8;}
{\*\cs16\cf0\rtlch\af4\afs18\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af4\afs18\langfe255\loch\f4\fs18\lang2057 RTF_Num 2 9;}
{\*\cs17\cf0\rtlch\af4\afs18\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af4\afs18\langfe255\loch\f4\fs18\lang2057 RTF_Num 2 10;}
{\*\cs18\rtlch\af4\afs18\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af4\afs18\loch\f4\fs18 Bullet Symbols;}
}
{\info{\comment StarWriter}{\vern6410}}\deftab1250
{\*\pgdsctbl
{\pgdsc0\pgdscuse195\pgwsxn11905\pghsxn16837\marglsxn1134\margrsxn1134\margtsxn1134\margbsxn1134\pgdscnxt0 Default;}}
\paperh16837\paperw11905\margl1134\margr1134\margt1134\margb1134\sectd\sbknone\pgwsxn11905\pghsxn16837\marglsxn1134\margrsxn1134\margtsxn1134\margbsxn1134\ftnbj\ftnstart1\ftnrstcont\ftnnar\aenddoc\aftnrstcont\aftnstart1\aftnnrlc
\pard\plain \s2\sa120\cf0\rtlch\af1\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af6\loch\lang255\li305\ri0\fi0\ltrch\dbch\af7\afs13\loch\f5 {\ltrch\loch\f5   Massumi,  Brian, 'Too-blue: colour-patch for an expanded empiricism', {\i cultural s tudies }14 (2) 2000, 177 \endash  226}
\par \pard\plain \s1\cf0\rtlch\af1\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af6\loch\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af8\afs20\loch\f5 
\par {\ltrch\loch\f5 The event lies at the intersection of at least two (and in reality many more)}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f5 process lines. One is the adoption and imposition by the experimenter of the}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f5 institutional set-up of the experiment, as defined linguistically, architecturally,}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f5 and on any number of other interlocking levels. Call this the {\i context}. Context}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f5 pre-exists. The possibility of maintaining objectivity in the face of surprise comes}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f5 from the context\rquote s relative stability as a more or less determinate given. The}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f5 second process line is the self-insistence of an autonomy of experience. Reserve}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f5 the term {\i situation }for the {\i event }of an autonomy of experience pushing into and}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f5 moving across a context. 181}
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par {\ltrch\loch\f5 As it transpires, the excess of blue is owned by the experimentee only retrospectively. It makes ingress in}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f5 excess of its expressibility as a personal feeling. The \lquote excess\rquote , then, is less the}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f5 quantity of feeling than the surprising manner in which the feeling preceded itself}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f5 into the context: it is the contextual {\i precession }of ownable feeling. That is why the}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f5 \lquote excess\rquote  is not simply a quantity of feeling, however great. It is a {\i qualitative }surplus}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f5 over any quantity of per sonal feeling. It may well not have come about without}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f5 an antecedent accumulation of familiarity and fondness. But it is not reducible to}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f5 that personal \lquote investment\rquote . (185)}
\par \pard\plain \s1\cf0\rtlch\af1\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af6\loch\lang255\ltrch\loch\f5 
\par \pard\plain \s1\cf0\rtlch\af1\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af6\loch\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af8\afs20\loch\f5 {\ltrch\loch\f5 Call the openness of an interaction to being affected by something new in a}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f5 way that qualitatively changes its dynamic nature {\i relationality}. Relationality is a}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f5 global excess of belonging-together enabled by but not reducible to the bare fact}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f5 of having objectively come-together. Relationality cannot be accounted for by the}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f5 objective proper ties of the actual ingredients in play considered as discrete elements.}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f5 It cannot even be reduced to the interactions that might logically be predicted}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f5 according to those proper ties. (191)}
\par 
\par {\ltrch\loch\f5 Relationality is the potential for singular effects of qualitative change}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f5 to occur in excess over or as a supplement to objective interactions. Relationality}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f5 pertains to the {\i openness }of the interaction, rather than to the interaction per}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f5 se or to its discrete ingredients. (191)}
\par 
\par {\ltrch\loch\f5 The birth of a new technical object is never a linear progress. It is knotty, a}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f5 mangle-prone emergence across a threshold of surprise. A new cycle begins, from}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f5 active indeterminacy, to vague determination, to \lquote full\rquote  determination (nominal}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f5 identity deployed within a conventional sphere of practical dependability). The}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f5 life of a technical object must always pass through the stages of ultimate fact of}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f5 experience (rupture/irruption/threshold of existence) and merely-talked-about}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f5 factoid (semi-objective elaboration) before finally baring itself through experimentation}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f5 (verification/profitable deployment). 183}
\par 
\par {\ltrch\loch\f5 Reserve the term \lquote emotion\rquote  for the personalized content, and {\i affect }for the}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f5 continuation. Emotion is contextual. Affect is situational: eventfully ingressive to}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f5 context. Serially so: affect is {\i transsituational}. As processional as it is precessional,}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f5 affect inhabits the passage. It is pre-and post-contextual, pre-and post-personal,}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f5 an excess of continuity invested only in the ongoing: its own. Self-continuity}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f5 across the gaps. Imper sonal affect is the connecting thread of experience. (185)}
\par 
\par {\ltrch\loch\f5 Discursive and institutional practices manage a certain regularity and predictability}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f5 in the passage from context to context. This contextual continuity is}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f5 in a different mode from the affective. It pertains to nominal identity. Identified}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f5 subjects and objects are considered, in principle, to cross the affective gap}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f5 between contexts essentially unchanged. It is admitted that they appear in the successive contexts in which they figure under continual modification, but the change}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f5 is understood as occur ring within acceptable bounds of recognizability and predictability.}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f5 This gives their progress the appearance of an ordered, even necessary,}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f5 evolution (or {\i history }). (186)}
\par 
\par {\ltrch\loch\f5 Every event, of whatever kind, carries conditions of anomaly. There is always a really-perceived miss in every context. There is always something really amiss in contextualized language use. No anomaly, no thisness: it\rquote s as simple as that. The necessary \lquote m
ore\rquote  than objective ingredience is never subjective in the narrow, personalized sense, even when it}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f5 has to do with emotion. Emotion was able to make the difference (between particular}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f5 ity and singularity) because it made ingress: because it was operating}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f5 transsituationally, in the gap between its entering the exper imental context and}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f5 its leaving the contexts of previous fr iendship. It effectively interfered and modulated}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f5 because it was operating pre-expressively, in the affective manner in which}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f5 it precedes itself. It had proceeded to phase back into affect. (190)}
\par 
\par {\ltrch\loch\f5 A potential does not pre-exist its emergence. If it doesn\rquote t emerge, it\rquote s because it wasn\rquote t really there. If it does, it really only just arrived. Potential is an advent. It is the contingency of an event in the future imperfect: \lquote will have\rquote  (precessive pro
cessing). It just will have come, that\rquote s all there is to it. Always, just: a hint of eternity arriving. Before coming, it will have been objectively indeterminate. Really. Not a calculable co-presence of already-possibilities: a {\i virtuality}.16 The virtual i
s not quantifiable. Quasicausality expresses a real, material reser ve of unpredictable potential; a vir tual \lquote always just will have\rquote  in excess of the possible; a non-objecti. able kernel or qualitative remainder of self-producing impossibility in matter, 
anomalously apt to irrupt in even the most closely controlled contexts. Surprise. Matter boost. In effect, uncaused. Selfcreative activity in and of the world. (192)}
\par 
\par {\ltrch\loch\f5 Taking into account the quasicausality or relational causality contingently}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f5 necessary to self-organization involves a willingness to find in matter itself the}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f5 incipiency of distinctions more comfortably restr icted to the human cultural}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f5 level: liveliness, context/situation, quantitative/qualitative, subject/object (creative/}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f5 reactive), sensation/affect (global openness to change). Most especially the}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f5 latter. (193)}
\par 
\par }