{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f1\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0604020202020204}Arial;}
{\f28\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f29\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f31\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f32\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}
{\f33\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\f34\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\f35\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\f36\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Arial CE;}{\f37\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Arial Cyr;}
{\f39\fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Arial Greek;}{\f40\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Arial Tur;}{\f41\fswiss\fcharset177\fprq2 Arial (Hebrew);}{\f42\fswiss\fcharset178\fprq2 Arial (Arabic);}{\f43\fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Arial Baltic;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;
\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}}{\info{\title loss of meaning is directly linked to the dissolving, dissuasive action of information, the media, and the mass media}
{\author adrian  mackenzie}{\operator adrian  mackenzie}{\creatim\yr2002\mo2\dy4\hr17\min16}{\revtim\yr2002\mo2\dy4\hr17\min16}{\version2}{\edmins1}{\nofpages1}{\nofwords362}{\nofchars2069}{\nofcharsws2540}{\vern8247}}
\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\horzdoc\dghspace120\dgvspace120\dghorigin1701\dgvorigin1984\dghshow0\dgvshow3\jcompress\viewkind4\viewscale110\nolnhtadjtbl \fet0\sectd \linex0\sectdefaultcl 
{\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5
\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\f1\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\langnp1033 
loss of meaning is directly linked to the dissolving, dissuasive action of information, the media, and the mass media. 79
\par live in a world where there is snore and more information, and less and less meaning Consider three hypotheses. 79
\par Either information produces meaning (a ne~entropic factor), but cannot make up for the brutal loss of signi~cation in every domain. 79
\par Or information has nothing to do with signification. It 79
\par Or, very much on the contrary there is a rigorous and necessar
y correlation between the two, to the extent that information is directly destructive of meaning and signification, or that it neutralizes them. The loss of meaning is directly linked to the " ~ dissolving, dissuasive action of information, the media, and
 the mass media.
\par I. Rather than creating communication, it exhausts itself in the act of staging communication. Ra Rather than producing meaning, it ~ exhausts itself in the staging of meaning. A gigantic process of simulation that is very familiar. 80
\par Thus the media are producers not of socialization, but of exactly the opposite, of the implosion of the social in the masses. And this is only the macroscopic extension of the implosion of meaning at the microscopic level of the sign. 81
\par If all the content is wiped out, there is perhaps still a subversive, revolutionary use value of the medium as such. 82
\par 4tcLuhan's formula, the medium is the message, which is the key formula of the era of simulation (the medium is the message-the sender is the -:_~ receiver-th
e circularity of all poles-the end of panoptic and perspectival space-such is the alpha and omega of our modernity), this very formula must be imagin PA at its limit where, after all the contents and messages have been volatilized in the me- , dium, it is
 the medium itself that is volatilized as such. 82
\par Finally, the medium is the message not only signifies the end of the message, but also the end of the medium. There are no more media in the literal sense of the word (I'm speaking particularly of electroni
c mass media)-that is, of a mediating power between one reality and another, between one state of the real and another. 81
\par single model, whose efficacy is immediate, simultaneously generates the message, the medium, and the "real." 0 2 82
\par do the media neutralize meaning produce unformed [informs] or informed [informed] masses, or is it the masses who victoriously resist the Media by directing or absorbing all the messages that the media produce without responding to them? 84
\par 
\par }}