{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fprq2 Courier New;}{\f1\fmodern\fprq2 Bitstream Charter;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \fi0\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24 Bland, M. (2000). }{\f0\fs24\i1 An introduction to medical statistics}{\f0\fs24  (Vol. 132). Oxford University Press Oxford. }
\par\plain \f0\fs24
\par\pard\plain \fi720\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 A population is any collection of individuals in which we may be interested, where these individuals may be anthing, and the number of individuals may be finite or infinite. 28}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Sometimes it is desirable to divide the population into different strata, for example into age and sex groups, and take random samples within these. \uc1\u8230\'85 If the different strata have different values of the quantity we are measuring, this }{\f0\fs24\b1\i0 stratified random sampling }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  can increase our precision considerably. 31}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 We often want to summarize a frequency distribution in a few numbers, for ease of reporting or comparison. The most direct method is to use quantiles. \uc1\u8230\'85 For example, the median is a quantile. 56}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 The quantity }{\f0\fs24\b0\i1 n-1}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  is called the }{\f0\fs24\b1\i0 degrees of freedom}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  of the variance estimate. 61}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 The }{\f0\fs24\b1\i0 probability}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  that an event will happen under given circumstances may be defined as the proportion of repetitions of those circumstances in which the event would occur in the long run. 87}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 A }{\f0\fs24\b1\i0 random variable, }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  that is, a variable which can take more than one value with given probabilities. 87}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 The }{\f0\fs24\b1\i0 Binomial distribution}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  is the distribution followed by the number of successes in }{\f0\fs24\b0\i1 n}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  independent trails when the probability of any single trial being a success is }{\f0\fs24\b0\i1 p.}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 90}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Just as a frequency distribution can be described by its mean and variance, so can a probability distribution and its associated random variable. 92}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 The }{\f0\fs24\b1\i0 mean }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 is the average value of the random variable in the long run. It is also called the }{\f0\fs24\b1\i0 expected value}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  or }{\f0\fs24\b1\i0 expectation}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  and the expectation of a random variable }{\f0\fs24\b0\i1 X}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  is usually dnoted by }{\f0\fs24\b0\i1 E(X)}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 . 92}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 The }{\f0\fs24\b1\i0 Poisson distribution}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  is the distribution followed by the number of events which happen in a fixed time interval. 95}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Hence, the relative frequency distribution for the whole population gives us the probability distribution of the variable. We call this curve the }{\f0\fs24\b1\i0 probability density function. }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 104}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b1\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Most continuous variable with which we have to deal, such as height, blood pressure, serum cholesterol, etc., do not arise from simple probability situations. 105-6.}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 The Normal distribution is the form to which the Binomial distribution tends as its parameter }{\f0\fs24\b0\i1 n }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 increases.106}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 In general, if we have any series of independent, identically distributed random variables, then their sum tends to Normal distribution as the number of variables increases. This is known as the }{\f0\fs24\b1\i0 Central Limit Theorem}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 . 107}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b1\i0 Estimation}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 The distribution of all possible sample means is called the }{\f0\fs24\b1\i0 sampling distribution}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  of the mean 122}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b1\i0 Mortality statistics and population structure.}
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0 Life expectancy - \hich\f1 \lquote \loch\f1 the average life still to be lived by those reaching age }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1 x.\hich\f1 \rquote \loch\f1 }{\f1\fs24\b0\i0  300}
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0 \hich\f1 \lquote \loch\f1 Expectation is used in its statistical sense of the average of a distribution\hich\f1 \rquote \loch\f1  301}
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i0 Life expectancy for the elderly has changed relatively little 305}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b0\i0}