{\rtf1\ansi\deff0\adeflang1025
{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fprq2\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}{\f1\froman\fprq2\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fnil\fprq0\fcharset0 Trebuchet MS;}{\f3\fswiss\fprq2\fcharset0 Arial;}{\f4\froman\fprq2\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}{\f5\fnil\fprq0\fcharset0 Arial Unicode MS;}{\f6\fnil\fprq0\fcharset0 MS Mincho;}{\f7\fnil\fprq2\fcharset0 Tahoma;}{\f8\fnil\fprq0\fcharset0 Tahoma;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;}
{\stylesheet{\s1\rtlch\af7\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af5\langfe2052\hich\fs24\lang2057\loch\fs24\lang2057\snext1 Normal;}
{\s2\sa120\rtlch\af7\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af5\langfe2052\hich\fs24\lang2057\loch\fs24\lang2057\sbasedon1\snext2 Body Text;}
{\s3\sa120\rtlch\af8\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af0\langfe2052\hich\f2\fs24\lang2057\loch\f2\fs24\lang2057\sbasedon2\snext3 List;}
{\s4\sb120\sa120\rtlch\af8\afs20\lang255\ai\ltrch\dbch\af5\langfe2052\hich\f2\fs20\lang2057\i\loch\f2\fs20\lang2057\i\sbasedon1\snext4 caption;}
{\s5\rtlch\af8\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af0\langfe2052\hich\f2\fs24\lang2057\loch\f2\fs24\lang2057\sbasedon1\snext5 Index;}
{\s6\sb240\sa120\keepn\rtlch\af0\afs28\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af6\langfe2052\hich\f3\fs28\lang2057\loch\f3\fs28\lang2057\sbasedon1\snext2 Heading;}
{\s7\sb120\sa120\rtlch\af7\afs20\lang255\ai\ltrch\dbch\af5\langfe2052\hich\f2\fs20\lang2057\i\loch\f2\fs20\lang2057\i\sbasedon1\snext7 caption;}
{\s8\sb120\sa120\rtlch\af7\afs20\lang255\ai\ltrch\dbch\af5\langfe2052\hich\f2\fs20\lang2057\i\loch\f2\fs20\lang2057\i\sbasedon1\snext8 WW-caption;}
{\s9\sb120\sa120\rtlch\af8\afs20\lang255\ai\ltrch\dbch\af0\langfe2052\hich\f2\fs20\lang2057\i\loch\f2\fs20\lang2057\i\sbasedon1\snext9 WW-caption1;}
{\s10\li283\ri0\lin283\rin0\fi0\sa120\rtlch\af7\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af5\langfe2052\hich\fs24\lang2057\loch\fs24\lang2057\sbasedon2\snext2 Body Text Indent;}
}
{\info{\creatim\yr2005\mo10\dy26\hr10\min50}{\revtim\yr1601\mo1\dy1\hr0\min0}{\printim\yr1601\mo1\dy1\hr0\min0}{\comment StarWriter}{\vern6800}}\deftab706
{\*\pgdsctbl
{\pgdsc0\pgdscuse195\pgwsxn11905\pghsxn16837\marglsxn1134\margrsxn1134\margtsxn1134\margbsxn1134\pgdscnxt0 Standard;}}
{\*\pgdscno0}\paperh16837\paperw11905\margl1134\margr1134\margt1134\margb1134\sectd\sbknone\pgwsxn11905\pghsxn16837\marglsxn1134\margrsxn1134\margtsxn1134\margbsxn1134\ftnbj\ftnstart1\ftnrstcont\ftnnar\aenddoc\aftnrstcont\aftnstart1\aftnnrlc
\pard\plain \ltrpar\s1\ql\rtlch\af7\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af5\langfe2052\hich\fs24\lang2057\loch\fs24\lang2057 {\rtlch \ltrch\loch\f0\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 \{Merleau-Ponty, 1964 #734\}}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s1\ql\rtlch\af7\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af5\langfe2052\hich\fs24\lang2057\loch\fs24\lang2057 {\rtlch \ltrch\loch\f0\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 Merleau-Ponty, Maurice. 1964. {\i The primacy of perception, and other essays on phenomenological psychology, the philosophy of art, history, and politics}, {\i Northwestern University studies in phenomenology & existential philosophy}. [Evanston, Ill.]: Northwester
n University Press.}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s1\ql\rtlch\af7\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af5\langfe2052\hich\fs24\lang2057\loch\fs24\lang2057 {\rtlch \ltrch\loch\f0\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 We grasp external space through our bodily situation. 5}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s1\ql\rtlch\af7\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af5\langfe2052\hich\fs24\lang2057\loch\fs24\lang2057 {\rtlch \ltrch\loch\f0\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 A system of possible movements, or \'93motor projects,\'94 radiates from us to our environment. Our body is not in space like things; it inhabits or haunts space. It applies itself to space like a hand to an instrument, and when we wish to move about we do not m
ove the body as we move an object. 5}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s1\ql\rtlch\af7\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af5\langfe2052\hich\fs24\lang2057\loch\fs24\lang2057 {\rtlch \ltrch\loch\f0\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 Even our most secret affective movements, those most deeply tied to the humoral infrastructure, help to shape our perception of things. 5}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s1\ql\rtlch\af7\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af5\langfe2052\hich\fs24\lang2057\loch\fs24\lang2057 {\rtlch \ltrch\loch\f0\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 We also find that spatial forms or distances are not so much relations between different points in objective space as they are relations between points and a central perspective \'96 our body. 5}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s1\ql\rtlch\af7\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af5\langfe2052\hich\fs24\lang2057\loch\fs24\lang2057 {\rtlch \ltrch\loch\f0\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 We find that perceived things, unlike geometrical objects, are not bounded entities whose laws onf custrction we possess {\i a priori, } but they are open, inexhaustible systems which we recognize through a certain style of development, although we are never ab
le, in principle, to explore them entirely, and even though they never give us more than profiles and perspectival views of themselves. 5-6}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s1\ql\rtlch\af7\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af5\langfe2052\hich\fs24\lang2057\loch\fs24\lang2057 {\rtlch \ltrch\loch\f0\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 Knowledge and communication sublimate rather than suppress our incarnation, and the characteristic operation of the mind is in the movement by which we recapture our corporeal existence and use it to symbolize instead of merely to coexist. 7}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s1\ql\rtlch\af7\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af5\langfe2052\hich\fs24\lang2057\loch\fs24\lang2057 {\rtlch \ltrch\loch  }{\rtlch \ltrch\loch\f0\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 This insertion of our factual situation as a particular case within the system of other possible situation begins as soon as we {\i designate } a point in space with our finger. For this pointing gesture, which animals do not understand, supposes that we are a
lready installed in virtual space \'96 at the end of the line prolonging our finger in a centrifugal and cultural space.  \{Merleau-Ponty, 1964 #734, 7\}}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s1\ql\rtlch\af7\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af5\langfe2052\hich\fs24\lang2057\loch\fs24\lang2057 
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s1\ql\rtlch\af7\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af5\langfe2052\hich\fs24\lang2057\loch\fs24\lang2057 {\rtlch \ltrch\loch\f0\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 I have only to see something to know who to reach it and deal with it, even if I do not know how this happens in the nervous machine.  162}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s1\ql\rtlch\af7\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af5\langfe2052\hich\fs24\lang2057\loch\fs24\lang2057 {\rtlch \ltrch\loch\f0\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 The visible world and the world of my motor project are each total parts of the same Being. 162}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s1\ql\rtlch\af7\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af5\langfe2052\hich\fs24\lang2057\loch\fs24\lang2057 {\rtlch \ltrch\loch\f0\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 Visible and mobile, my body is a thing among things; it is caught in the fabric of the world and its cohesion is that of a thing. But because it moves itself and sees, it holds things in a circle around itself. Things are an annex or prolongation of itself
; they are incrusted into its flesh, they are part of its full definition; the world is made of the same stuff as the body. This way of turning things around, these antinomies, are different ways of saying that vision happens among, or is caught in, things
 \'96 in that place where something visible undertakes to see, becomes visible for itself by virtue of the sight of things; in that place where there persists, like the mother water in crystal, the undividedness of the sensing and the sensed. 163}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s1\ql\rtlch\af7\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af5\langfe2052\hich\fs24\lang2057\loch\fs24\lang2057 {\rtlch \ltrch\loch\f0\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 There is a human body when, between the seeing and the seen, between touching and the touched, between one eye and the other, between hand and hand, a blending of some sort takes place 163}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s1\ql\rtlch\af7\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af5\langfe2052\hich\fs24\lang2057\loch\fs24\lang2057 {\rtlch \ltrch\loch\f0\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 The picture and the actor's mimickry are not devices to be borrowed from the real world in order to signify prosaic things which are absent. For the imaginary is much nearer to, and much farther away from, the actual \'96 nearer because it is in my body as a 
diagram of the life of the actual, with all its pulp and carnal obverse exposed to view for the first time (164-165)}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s1\ql\rtlch\af7\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af5\langfe2052\hich\fs24\lang2057\loch\fs24\lang2057 {\rtlch \ltrch\loch\f0\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 Things have an internal equivalent in me; they arouse in me a carnal formula of their presence. Why shouldn't these [correspondences] in their turn give rise to some [external] visible shape in which anyone else would recognize those motifs which support h
is own inspection of the world? Thus there appears a \'93visible\'94 of the second power. 164}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s1\ql\rtlch\af7\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af5\langfe2052\hich\fs24\lang2057\loch\fs24\lang2057 {\rtlch \ltrch\loch\f0\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 The eye is an instrument that moves itself, a mean which invents it own ends; it is {\i that which } has been moved by some impact of the world, which it then restores to the visible through the offices of an agile hand.  165}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s1\ql\rtlch\af7\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af5\langfe2052\hich\fs24\lang2057\loch\fs24\lang2057 {\rtlch \ltrch\loch\f0\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 As things stand, then, everything we say and think of vision has to make a {\i thought } of it. (re Descartes, 175)}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s1\ql\rtlch\af7\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af5\langfe2052\hich\fs24\lang2057\loch\fs24\lang2057 {\rtlch \ltrch\loch\f0\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 [N]o thought ever detaches itself completely from a sustaining support; that the only privilege of speaking-thought is to have rendered its own support manageable; 189}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s1\ql\rtlch\af7\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af5\langfe2052\hich\fs24\lang2057\loch\fs24\lang2057 
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s1\ql\rtlch\af7\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af5\langfe2052\hich\fs24\lang2057\loch\fs24\lang2057 {\rtlch \ltrch\loch\f0\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 If my body is to appropriate the conducts given to me visually and make them its own, it must itself be given to me not as a mass of utterly private sensations but instead by what has been called a 'postural' or 'corporeal' scheme. 117}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s1\ql\rtlch\af7\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af5\langfe2052\hich\fs24\lang2057\loch\fs24\lang2057 
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s1\ql\rtlch\af7\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af5\langfe2052\hich\fs24\lang2057\loch\fs24\lang2057 
\par }