{\rtf1\ansi\deff1\adeflang1025
{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fprq2\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fnil\fprq0\fcharset0 Trebuchet MS;}{\f2\fnil\fprq0\fcharset0 Trebuchet MS;}{\f3\fnil\fprq2\fcharset0 Tahoma;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;}
{\stylesheet{\s1\rtlch\af3\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af3\afs24\langfe255\loch\fs24\lang2057\snext1 Default;}
{\s2\sa120\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\sbasedon1\snext2 Text body;}
{\s3\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\fs24\lang2057\sbasedon2\snext3 List;}
{\s4\sb120\sa120\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af1\afs20\lang255\ai\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs20\langfe255\ai\loch\fs20\lang2057\i\sbasedon1\snext4 Caption;}
{\s5\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\fs24\lang2057\sbasedon1\snext5 Index;}
}
{\info{\creatim\yr2005\mo7\dy6\hr11\min1}{\revtim\yr1601\mo1\dy1\hr0\min0}{\printim\yr1601\mo1\dy1\hr0\min0}{\comment StarWriter}{\vern6450}}\deftab709
{\*\pgdsctbl
{\pgdsc0\pgdscuse195\pgwsxn11905\pghsxn16837\marglsxn1134\margrsxn1134\margtsxn1134\margbsxn1134\pgdscnxt0 Default;}}
{\*\pgdscno0}\paperh16837\paperw11905\margl1134\margr1134\margt1134\margb1134\sectd\sbknone\pgwsxn11905\pghsxn16837\marglsxn1134\margrsxn1134\margtsxn1134\margbsxn1134\ftnbj\ftnstart1\ftnrstcont\ftnnar\aenddoc\aftnrstcont\aftnstart1\aftnnrlc
\pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\ql\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057 {\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 \{Merleau-Ponty, 1964 #706\}}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\ql\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057 {\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 Merleau-Ponty, M. (1964). The Film and the New Psychology (Hubert Dreyfus & Patricia Allen Dreyfus, Trans.). In {\i Sense and Non-sense} (pp. 48-59): Northwestern University Press.}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\ql\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057 {\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 The perception of forms, understood very broadly as structure, grouping, or configuration should be considered our spontaneous way of seeing. 49}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\ql\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057 {\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 My perception is therefore not a sum of visual, tactile, and audible givens: I perceive in a total way with my whole being; I grasp a unique structure of the thing, a unique way of being, which speaks to all my senses at once. 50}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\ql\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057 {\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 Objects and lighting form a system which tends towards a constancy and a certain level of stability \endash  not through the operation of intelligence but through the very configuration of the field. I do not think the world in the act of perception: it organizes
 itself in front of me. 51}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\ql\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057 {\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 Even the perception of movement, which at first seems to depend directly on the point of reference chosen by the intellect is in turn only one element in the global organization of the field. 51}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\ql\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057 {\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 [a] film is a not sum total of images but a temporal {\i gestalt. }54}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\ql\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057 {\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 Since a film consists not only of montage ... but also of cutting ..., it seems to be an extremely complex form inside of which a very great number of actions and reactions are taking place at every moment. The laws of this form, morever, are yet to be dis
covered, having until now only been sensed by the flair and tract of director, who handles cinematographic language as a man manipulates syntax: without explicitly thinking about it and without always being in a position to formulate the rules which he spo
ntaneously obeys 54-55}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\ql\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057 {\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 What, then, does the film {\i signify: } what does it mean? Each film tells a {\i story: 57}}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\ql\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057 {\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 The meaning of a film is incorporated into its rhythm just as the meaning of a gesture may be immediately read in that gesture: the film does not mean anything but itself 57}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\ql\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057 {\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 They directly present to us that special way of being in the world, of dealing with things and other people, which can see in the sign language of gesture and gaze and which clearly defines each person we know. 58}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\ql\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057 {\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 Therefore, if philosophy is in harmony with the cinema, if thought and technical effort are heading in the same direction, it is because the philosopher and the moviemaker share a certain way of being, a certain view of the world which belongs to a generat
ion.  It offers us yet another chance to confirm that modes of thought correspond to technical methods 59}
\par }