Deleuze, Gilles, & Guattari, Felix, A Thousand Plateaus, tr. Brian Massumi, University of Minnesota Press, Minneapolis,1987

Could it be that it is at the moment the war machine ceases to exist, conquered by the State, that it displays to the utmost its irreducibility, that it scatters into thinking, loving, dying, or creating machines that have at their disposal vital or revolutionary powers capable of challenging the conquering State? 356

The State-form, as a form of interiority, has a tendency to reproduce itself, remaining identical to Itself across its variations and easily recognizable within the limits of its poles, always seeking public recognition (there is no masked state). But the war machine's form of exteriority is such that it exists only in its own metamorphoses; it exists in an industrial innovation as well as in a technological invention, in a commercial circuit as well as in a religious creation, in all flows and currents that only secondarily allow themselves to be appropriated by the State. It is in terms not of'independence',  but of coexistence and competition in a perpetual field of interaction that we must conceive of exteriority and anteriority, war machines of metamorphosis and State apparatuses of identity, bands and kingdoms, megamachines and empires. 360-361

4. Finally, the model is problematic, rather than theorematic: figures are considered only from the viewpoint of the affections that befall them: 362

Whereas the theorem belongs to the rational orders the problem is affective and is inseparable from the metamorphoses, generations, and creations within science itself. 362

This opposition, or rather this tension-limit between the two kinds of science-nomad, war machine science and royal, State science-reappears at different moments, on different levels. 364 

We thus come to the question, What is a collective body? Undoubtedly the great collective bodies of a State are differentiated and hierarchical organisms that on the one hand enjoy a monopoly over a power or injunction and on the other hand send out local representatives. They have a special relation to families, because they link the Family Model to the State model at both ends and regard themselves as “great families"of functionaries, clerks, intendants, or farmers. Yet it seems that in many of these collective bodies there is something else at work that does not fit into this schema. It is not just their obstinate defense of their privileges. It  is also their aptitude-even caricatural or seriously deformed-to constitute themselves as a war machine, following other models, another dynamism, a nomadic ambition, over against the state. 366 

What we wish to say, rather, is that collective bodies always have fringes or minorities that reconstitute equivalents of the war machine-in sometimes quite unforeseen forms-in specific assemblages such as building bridges or cathedrals or rendering judgments or making music or instituting a science, a technology 366 

The difference is not extrinsic: the way in which a science, or a conception of science, participates in the organization of the social field, and in particular induces a division of labor is part of that science itself. 368-369

Royal science is inseparable from a “hylomorphic" model implying both a form that organizes matter and a matter prepared for the form; it has often been shown that this schema derives less from technology or life than from a society divided into governors and governed, and later, intellectuals and manual laborers. What characterizes it is that all matter is assigned to content, while all form passes into expression. It seems that nomad science is more immediately in tune with the connection between content and expression in themselves, each of these two terms encompassing both form and matter. Thus matter, in nomad science, is never prepared and therefore homogenized matter, but is essentially laden with singularities (which constitute a form of content). And neither is expression formal; it is inseparable from pertinent traits (which constitute a matter of expression). 369

From the point of view of nomad science, which presents itself as an art as much as a technique, the division of labor fully exists, but it does not employ the form-matter duality (even in the case of biunivocal correspondences). Rather, it follows the connections between singularities of matter and traits of expression, and lodges on the level of these connections, whether they be natural or forced. This is another organization of work and of the social field through work. 369

A distinction must be made between two types of science, or scientific procedures: one consists in “reproducing," the other in “following.” The first involves reproduction, iteration and reiteration; the other, involving itineration, is the sum of the itinerant, ambulant sciences. Itineration is too readily reduced to a modality of technology, or of the application and verification of science. But this is not the case: following is not at all the same thing as reproducing, and one never follows in order to reproduce. 372

Assemblages are passional, they are compositions of desire. Desire has nothing to do with a natural or spontaneous determination; there is no desire but assembling, assembled desire. The rationality, the efficiency, of an assemblage does not exist without the passions the assemblages bring into play, without the desires that constitute it as much as it constitutes them. (Deleuze & Guattari, 399). {#intimacies} {#desire}

It is the machine that is primary in relation to the technical element: not the technical machine, itself a collection of elements, but the social or collective machine, the machinic assemblage that determines what is a technical element at a given moment, what is its usage, extension, comprehension, etc. 398 {#ensemble} 

It is through the intermediary of assemblages that the phylum selects, qualifies, and even invents the technical elements. Thus one cannot speak of weapons or tools before defining the constituent assemblages they presuppose and enter into. 398

Passions are effectuations of desire that differ according to the assemblage: it is not the same justice or the same cruelty, the same pity, etc. The work regime is inseparable from an organization and a development of Form, corresponding to which is the formation of the subject. This is the passional regime of Feeling as "the form of the worker." Feeling implies an evaluation of matter and its resistances, a direction (sens, also 'meaning') to form and its developments, an economy of force and its displacements, an entire gravity. But the regime of war machine is on the contrary that of affects, which relate only to the moving body in itself, to speeds and compositions of speed among elements. Still from the standpoint ofthe assemblage, there is an essential relation between tools and signs. That is because the work model that defines the tool belongs to the State apparatus.  400 {#work} {#state}

Martial arts and state-of-the-art technologies have value only because they create the possibility of bringing together worker and warrior masses of a new type. The shared line of flight of the weapon and the tool: a pure possibility, a mutation. There arise subterranean, aerial, submarine technicians who belong more or less to the world order, but who involuntarily invent and amass virtual charges of knowledge and action that are usable by others, minute but easily acquired for new assemblages. 403

