{\rtf1\ansi\deff1\adeflang1025
{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fprq2\fcharset0 Nimbus Roman No9 L;}{\f1\fnil\fprq0\fcharset0 Trebuchet MS;}{\f2\fnil\fprq0\fcharset0 Trebuchet MS;}{\f3\fnil\fprq0\fcharset0 Arial;}{\f4\fnil\fprq2\fcharset1 Bitstream Vera Sans;}{\f5\fnil\fprq2\fcharset0 Luxi Sans;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;}
{\stylesheet{\s1\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af5\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af5\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033\snext1 Default;}
{\s2\sa120\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af5\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af5\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033\sbasedon1\snext2 Text body;}
{\s3\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af5\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af5\afs24\langfe255\loch\fs24\lang1033\sbasedon2\snext3 List;}
{\s4\sb120\sa120\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af5\afs20\lang255\ai\ltrch\dbch\af5\afs20\langfe255\ai\loch\fs20\lang1033\i\sbasedon1\snext4 Caption;}
{\s5\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af5\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af5\afs24\langfe255\loch\fs24\lang1033\sbasedon1\snext5 Index;}
}
{\info{\creatim\yr2004\mo5\dy7\hr10\min6}{\revtim\yr2004\mo5\dy7\hr10\min43}{\printim\yr1601\mo1\dy1\hr0\min0}{\comment StarWriter}{\vern6450}}\deftab709
{\*\pgdsctbl
{\pgdsc0\pgdscuse195\pgwsxn11905\pghsxn16837\marglsxn1134\margrsxn1134\margtsxn1134\margbsxn1134\pgdscnxt0 Default;}}
\paperh16837\paperw11905\margl1134\margr1134\margt1134\margb1134\sectd\sbknone\pgwsxn11905\pghsxn16837\marglsxn1134\margrsxn1134\margtsxn1134\margbsxn1134\ftnbj\ftnstart1\ftnrstcont\ftnnar\aenddoc\aftnrstcont\aftnstart1\aftnnrlc
\pard\plain \ltrpar\s1\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af3\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af3\afs24\langfe255\loch\f3\fs24\lang1033 {\loch\f3\fs24\lang1033\i0\b0 Mitchell, W. J. (2003). {\ul Me++. The Cyborg Self and the Networked City}. Cambridge, MA & London, MIT Press.}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s1\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af3\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af3\afs24\langfe255\loch\f3\fs24\lang1033 {\loch\f3\fs24\lang1033\i0\b0 Until recently, however, there was a critical missing link. Interconnections across networks layers worked reasonably well from the global scale down to the walls, but then there was a gap. Our bodies temporarily lost connection to larger networks when the
y got up and moved around. (47)}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s1\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af3\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af3\afs24\langfe255\loch\f3\fs24\lang1033 {\loch\f3\fs24\lang1033\i0\b0 Every point on the surface of the earth is now part of the Herzian landscape-the product of innumerable transmissions and of the reflections and obstructions of those transmissions. (55)}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s1\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af3\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af3\afs24\langfe255\loch\f3\fs24\lang1033 {\loch\f3\fs24\lang1033\i0\b0 This landscape frames a complex geopolitics and political economy of wireless coverage. Within it, at every scale, there is competition for access to communities, for antenna sites, for timeslots and for channel capacity. Just as the kingdoms and empires o
f old struggled for control of terrestrial territory, those who seek power today increasingly contend for control of the airwaves. (55)}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s1\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af3\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af3\afs24\langfe255\loch\f3\fs24\lang1033 {\loch\f3\fs24\lang1033\i0\b0 With the emergence of 802.11 wireless networks in the early 2000s, a new field of functional possibility superimposed itself on public space. This hub-and-card technology provided convenient connectivity for wireless laptops, and enthusiasts set about crea
ting public wireless hotspots. These first emerged in semi-public spaces \endash  such as caf{\f4 \'e9}s, bars, lobbies, waiting rooms, and airport lounges-which suddenly became much more useful as ad hoc workplaces and online interaction points; instead of reading a news
paper, you could download your email or surf the Web. (If you want privacy, you learned to take the seat against the wall, and keep the back of your screen to the public.) Then hotspots migrated outdoors. Midtown Manhattan's Bryant Park was one of the firs
t outdoor public places to provide for 802.11 surfing under the trees and email from a park bench. (157-8)}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s1\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af3\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af3\afs24\langfe255\loch\f3\fs24\lang1033 {\loch\f3\fs24\lang1033\i0\b0 In general, as these transformations of public space illustrate, there is a strong relationship between prevailing network structure and the distribution of activities over public and private places.  ... And where networks go wireless, they mobilize activ
ities that had been tied to fixed locations and open up ways of reactivating urban public space; the home entertainment center reemerges as the Walkman, the home telephone as the cellphone, and the computer as the laptop (158)}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s1\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af3\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af3\afs24\langfe255\loch\f3\fs24\lang1033 {\loch\f3\fs24\lang1033\i0\b0 Skeptics about wireless networks like to emphasize that wireless merely provides the last link in a telecommunication infrastructure that is, in fact, mostly wired. Furthermore, it is a relatively unreliable and inefficient link. They are right, but they c
ompletely miss the point. As these examples illustrate, for good or ill, continuous fields of presence provided by wireless networks can fundamentally alter patterns of resource availability and space use (147).}
\par }