In The Ecological Thought I coined the term hyperobjects to refer to things that are massively distributed in time and space relative to humans. 1 A hyperobject could be a black hole. A hyperobject could be the Lago Agrio oil field in Ecuador, or the Florida Everglades. A hyperobject could be the biosphere, or the Solar System. A hyperobject could be the sum total of all the nuclear materials on Earth; or just the plutonium, or the uranium. A hyperobject could be the very long-lasting product of direct human manufacture, such as Styrofoam or plastic bags, or the sum of all the whirring machinery of capitalism. Hyperobjects, then, are “hyper” in relation to some other entity, whether they are directly manufactured by humans or not. 1
Hyperobjects have numerous properties in common. They are viscous, which means that they “stick” to beings that are involved with them. They are nonlocal; in other words, any “local manifestation” of a hyper- object is not directly the hyperobject. 2 They involve profoundly different temporalities than the human-scale ones we are used to. In particular, some very large hyperobjects, such as planets, have genuinely Gaussian temporality: they generate spacetime vortices, due to general relativity. 1

The mathematical entity is the paraphrase—the mathematical entity is the “warm and fuzzy” one, on the hither side of human meaning. A hyperobject exists for us as a map in a high-dimensional phase space, because it is impossible for us to grasp as a whole with our senses. But this means the opposite of a Platonism that says that mathematical rela- tionships underlie things. It only means that the mathematical as such just is mathēsis, which is a Greek term that comes close to the Tibetan gom, the term for meditation. Gom and mathēsis both mean something like “getting used to,” “growing accustomed.” 5 Mathematics in this sense, beyond number, is the way the mind acclimatizes itself to reality.76
