{\rtf1\ansi\deff1\adeflang1025
{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fprq2\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fnil\fprq0\fcharset0 Trebuchet MS;}{\f2\fnil\fprq0\fcharset0 Trebuchet MS;}{\f3\fnil\fprq2\fcharset0 Tahoma;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;}
{\stylesheet{\s1\rtlch\af3\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af3\afs24\langfe255\loch\fs24\lang2057\snext1 Default;}
{\s2\sa120\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\sbasedon1\snext2 Text body;}
{\s3\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\fs24\lang2057\sbasedon2\snext3 List;}
{\s4\sb120\sa120\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af1\afs20\lang255\ai\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs20\langfe255\ai\loch\fs20\lang2057\i\sbasedon1\snext4 Caption;}
{\s5\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\fs24\lang2057\sbasedon1\snext5 Index;}
}
{\info{\creatim\yr2004\mo2\dy26\hr9\min52}{\revtim\yr1601\mo1\dy1\hr0\min0}{\printim\yr1601\mo1\dy1\hr0\min0}{\comment StarWriter}{\vern6450}}\deftab709
{\*\pgdsctbl
{\pgdsc0\pgdscuse195\pgwsxn11905\pghsxn16837\marglsxn1134\margrsxn1134\margtsxn1134\margbsxn1134\pgdscnxt0 Default;}}
{\*\pgdscno0}\paperh16837\paperw11905\margl1134\margr1134\margt1134\margb1134\sectd\sbknone\pgwsxn11905\pghsxn16837\marglsxn1134\margrsxn1134\margtsxn1134\margbsxn1134\ftnbj\ftnstart1\ftnrstcont\ftnnar\aenddoc\aftnrstcont\aftnstart1\aftnnrlc
\pard\plain \ltrpar\s1\ql\rtlch\af3\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af3\afs24\langfe255\loch\fs24\lang1033 {\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033\i0\b0 Neff, G. and Stark, D. 2002. 'Permanently Beta: Responsive Organization in the Internet Era' in Howard, P.E.N. and Jones, S. (eds.) {\i The Internet and American Life}. Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage.}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s1\ql\rtlch\af3\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af3\afs24\langfe255\loch\fs24\lang1033 
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\ql\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057 {\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 The coding of software and information technologies has the potential to extend beyond the economic implications for particular applications to the rewriting of social codes and patterns of behaviour, influencing not only what activities happen online, but
 also the ways in which things are done offline. (1)}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\ql\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ai\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\ai\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\i {\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\i\b0 Permanently beta is a fluid organizational form resulting from the process of negotiation between users, employers, and organizations over the design of goods and services. The instability associated with being permanently beta is not without social costs.
 But it may present opportunities for organizing broader participation in the design   of products and organizations. (2)}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s1\ql\rtlch\af3\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af3\afs24\langfe255\loch\fs24\lang1033 
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s1\ql\rtlch\af3\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af3\afs24\langfe255\loch\fs24\lang1033 {\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033\i0\b0 If, as it has been said, architecture is politics set in stone, then information architecture is politics in code. Code is not set in stone, as buildings literally are, but is it as mutable as we would like to think? Code's rigidities-including path depend
encies and legacies in both technological and social systems \endash  shape the future of code. Thus the values embedded in code at one point become the structuring factors of future development: these values are not mutable simply because of continual technical 
change, nor are the values in code necessarily good or bad because they have a political valence (10)}
\par }