{\rtf1\ansi\deff1\adeflang1025
{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fprq2\fcharset0 Times New Roman{\*\falt Thorndale};}{\f1\froman\fprq2\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fnil\fprq0\fcharset0 Trebuchet MS;}{\f3\froman\fprq2\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fswiss\fprq2\fcharset0 Trebuchet MS;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;}
{\stylesheet{\s1\rtlch\lang255\ltrch\dbch\langfe1033\loch\lang1033\snext1 Default;}
{\s2\sa232\sl360\slmult1\rtlch\lang255\ltrch\dbch\langfe1033\loch\f4\lang1033\sbasedon1\snext2 Text body;}
{\s3\sa232\sl360\slmult1\rtlch\lang255\ltrch\dbch\langfe1033\loch\f2\lang1033\sbasedon2\snext3 List;}
{\s4\sb120\sa120\rtlch\afs20\lang255\ltrch\dbch\afs20\langfe1033\loch\f2\fs20\lang1033\i\sbasedon1\snext4 Caption;}
{\s5\rtlch\lang255\ltrch\dbch\langfe1033\loch\f2\lang1033\sbasedon1\snext5 Index;}
{\s6\aspalpha\rtlch\lang255\ltrch\dbch\langfe255\loch\lang2057\sbasedon1\snext6 Normal;}
{\s7\sb240\sl360\slmult1\rtlch\af4\afs20\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af4\afs20\loch\f4\fs20\lang1033\sbasedon6\snext7 Body Text;}
{\s8\tqc\tx4818\tqr\tx9637\rtlch\lang255\ltrch\dbch\langfe1033\loch\lang1033\sbasedon1\snext8 Header;}
{\s9\tqc\tx4818\tqr\tx9637\rtlch\lang255\ltrch\dbch\langfe1033\loch\lang1033\sbasedon1\snext9 Footer;}
{\*\cs11\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\afs24\langfe255\loch\fs24\lang1033\sbasedon12 Default Paragraph Font;}
{\*\cs12\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\afs24\langfe255\loch\fs24 Normal;}
}
{\info{\comment StarWriter}{\vern6410}}\deftab720
{\*\pgdsctbl
{\pgdsc0\pgdscuse195\pgwsxn12240\pghsxn15840\marglsxn1800\margrsxn1800\margtsxn1440\margbsxn1440\pgdscnxt0 Default;}
{\pgdsc1\pgdscuse195\pgwsxn12240\pghsxn15840\marglsxn1800\margrsxn1800\margtsxn720\margbsxn720\headery0{\*\headeryb0\headerxl0\headerxr0\headeryh720}{\header \pard\plain \s8\tqc\tx4818\tqr\tx9637\rtlch\lang255\ltrch\dbch\langfe1033\loch\lang1033\tqc\tx4818\tqr\tx9637\ltrch\dbch\langfe1033\loch\lang1033 
\par }
\footery0{\*\footeryt0\footerxl0\footerxr0\footeryh720}{\footer \pard\plain \s9\tqc\tx4818\tqr\tx9637\rtlch\lang255\ltrch\dbch\langfe1033\loch\lang1033\tqc\tx4818\tqr\tx9637\ltrch\dbch\langfe1033\loch\lang1033 
\par }
\pgdscnxt1 Convert 1;}}
{\*\pgdscno1}\paperh15840\paperw12240\margl1800\margr1800\margt720\margb720\sectd\sbknone\pgwsxn12240\pghsxn15840\marglsxn1800\margrsxn1800\margtsxn1440\margbsxn994\headery720{\header \pard\plain \s8\tqc\tx4818\tqr\tx9637\rtlch\lang255\ltrch\dbch\langfe1033\loch\lang1033\tqc\tx4818\tqr\tx9637\ltrch\dbch\langfe1033\loch\lang1033 
\par }
\footery720{\footer \pard\plain \s9\tqc\tx4818\tqr\tx9637\rtlch\lang255\ltrch\dbch\langfe1033\loch\lang1033\tqc\tx4818\tqr\tx9637\ltrch\dbch\langfe1033\loch\lang1033 
\par }
\ftnbj\ftnstart1\ftnrstcont\ftnnar\aenddoc\aftnrstcont\aftnstart1\aftnnrlc
\pard\plain \s2\sa232\sl360\slmult1\rtlch\lang255\ltrch\dbch\langfe1033\loch\f4\lang1033 {\ltrch\loch\f4 Patton, Paul  {\i Deleuze and the political}, Routledge 2000 {\*\bkmkstart DDE_LINK1}{\*\bkmkend DDE_LINK1}}
\par \pard\plain \s2\sa232\sl360\slmult1\rtlch\lang255\ltrch\dbch\langfe1033\loch\f4\lang1033 
\par {\ltrch\loch\f4 Striated space encloses a surface, divides it up at determinate intervals, establishes breaks, whereas a smooth space involves distribution across a surface, by frequency or along paths' (Deleuze and Guattari 1987: 481, trans. modified). 112 ) }
\par {\ltrch\loch\f4 (1987) A Thousand Plateaus: Capitalism and Schizophrenia, trans. Brian Massumi, Mineapolis: University of Minnesota Press. ] D THF, DELF l 12 AND a. Deleuze and the political, Paul Patton. :}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f4  'In what does it consists if not the endeavour to know how and to what extent it might be possible to think differently, instead of legitimating what is already known?' (Foucault 1985: 9). In}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f4 - (1985) The Use of PIeasure, trans. Robert Hurley, New York: Vintage Books.}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f4 A meaningful politics of difference requires more than a simplistic formula about the relative priority of difference and identity. 46}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f4 It is because forces are of different \lquote natural kinds', as 'well as different magnitudes' that he refers to the space in which forces confront one another as 'a non-place, a pure distance, which indicates that the adversaries do not belong to a common space
' (Foucault 1977b: 85).}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f4 Forces are the potentials for acting and being acted upon which constitute bodies as bodies of a particular kind. 52}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f4 Relationship of forces constitutes a body - whether it is chemical, biological, social or political. Any two forces, being unequal, constitute a body as soon as they enter into a relationship' (Deleuze 1983: 40). (1P83) Nietzsche and Philosophy, trans. (19
83) Nietzsche and Philosophy, trans. Hugh Tomlinson, London: Athlone Press.}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f4 Power's condition of possibility . . . is the moving substrate of force relations which, by virtue of their inequality, constantly engender states of power' (Foucault 1978: ~3). 93}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f4 A body will increase in power to the extent that its capacities to affect and be affected become more developed and differentiated (Deleuze 1983: 62) . 74}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f4 The socius takes different forms according to the means of codification of flows CflC 8 p 89}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f4 With the emergence of capitalism, society passes from a regime of code surplus to a regime of flow surplus (Deleuze and Guattari 1577: 228). 93}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f4 The real characteristics of axiomatics that lead us to say that capitalism and present-day politics are an axiomatic the 'literal sense' (Deleuze and Guattari 1987: 461). 94}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f4 Whereas a code establishes a systematic correspondence directly between elements of different signifying systems, an axiomatic system is defined by purely syntactic rules for the generation of strings of non-signifying or uninterpreted symbols. 94}
\par 
\par }