{\rtf1\ansi\deff1\adeflang1025
{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fprq2\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fnil\fprq0\fcharset0 Trebuchet MS;}{\f2\fnil\fprq0\fcharset0 Trebuchet MS;}{\f3\fswiss\fprq2\fcharset1 Trebuchet MS;}{\f4\fnil\fprq2\fcharset0 Tahoma;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;}
{\stylesheet{\s1\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af4\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af4\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\snext1 Default;}
{\s2\sa120\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af4\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af4\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\sbasedon1\snext2 Text body;}
{\s3\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af4\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af4\afs24\langfe255\loch\fs24\lang2057\sbasedon2\snext3 List;}
{\s4\sb120\sa120\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af4\afs20\lang255\ai\ltrch\dbch\af4\afs20\langfe255\ai\loch\fs20\lang2057\i\sbasedon1\snext4 Caption;}
{\s5\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af4\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af4\afs24\langfe255\loch\fs24\lang2057\sbasedon1\snext5 Index;}
}
{\info{\creatim\yr2005\mo7\dy8\hr10\min51}{\revtim\yr2005\mo7\dy8\hr11\min0}{\printim\yr1601\mo1\dy1\hr0\min0}{\comment StarWriter}{\vern6450}}\deftab709
{\*\pgdsctbl
{\pgdsc0\pgdscuse195\pgwsxn11905\pghsxn16837\marglsxn1134\margrsxn1134\margtsxn1134\margbsxn1134\pgdscnxt0 Default;}}
\paperh16837\paperw11905\margl1134\margr1134\margt1134\margb1134\sectd\sbknone\pgwsxn11905\pghsxn16837\marglsxn1134\margrsxn1134\margtsxn1134\margbsxn1134\ftnbj\ftnstart1\ftnrstcont\ftnnar\aenddoc\aftnrstcont\aftnstart1\aftnnrlc
\pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\rtlch\af4\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af4\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057 {\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 \{Peirce, 1960 #707\}}
\par {\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 Peirce, C. S. (1960). How to make our ideas clear. In Charles Hartshorne & P. Weiss (Eds.), {\i Collected Papers of Charles Sanders Peirce} (Vol. V, pp. 248-271). Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press.}
\par {\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 We reflect that the whole function of thought is to produce habits of action; and that whatever there is connected with a thought, but irrelevant to its purpose, is an accretion to it, but no part of it. If there be a unity among our sensations which has n
o reference to how we  shall act on a given occasion, as when we listen to a piece of music, why we do not call that thinking. {\f3 \'a7}400}
\par {\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 Thus, we come down to what is tangible and conceivably practical, as the root of every distinction of thought, no matter how subtile it may be; and there is no distinction of meaning so fine as to consist in anything but a possible difference in practice. 
{\f3 \'a7}400}
\par {\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 Consider what effects, that might conceivably have practical bearings, we conceive the object of our conception to have. Then, our conception of these effects is the whole of our conception of the object. {\f3 \'a7}402}
\par {\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 Thus we may define the real as that whose characters are independent of what anybody may think them to be. {\f3 \'a7}405}
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par }