Project Work: The Organisation of Collaborative Design and Development in Software Engineering
Computer Supported Cooperative Work: The Journal of Collaborative Computing 5: 369-386, 1996. 369
GRAHAM BuTTON WES SHARROCK

It is commonplace to refer to engineering projects and the easy way in which this term is used can detract from the recognition that the project is a prominent way in which engineering work is socially organised so as to confront the sorts of contingencies that face software engineering that we have alluded to such as the threatened curtailment because of. for example, drastic slippage, or such as the pressures to abandon good practice.  372
Within the profession, and within the organisation we studied, much effort is expended on contriving devices which will provide 'orderliness' in the conduct of work and in ensuring that such devices can be implemented and enforced. These devices are meant to enable the achievement of orderly work where it requires the collaborative participation of many individuals, and may, crudely, be characterised as devices which are designed to create and support teamwork; 373

Engineers have to use a variety of devices that are not prescribed by the arrangements of the project in order to work up the project, and it is thus through the use of these devices that, (i) the character of work as project work is achieved, and (ii) that the contingencies of development are practically contended with in relation to whatever details the unfolding course of the development turns up. The organisation of engineering work as project work is thus located in these devices which engineers use in doing their work and it is to a description of these that we now turn. 373

Generally speaking, within the world of work, efforts may be made to 'upgrade' activities, and within the particular work-a-day world of engineers efforts are made to upgrade the production of documentation in order to ensure that it is built into the engineer's work. Upgrading the work is a general device that is used to ensure that 'dirty work' gets done and vithin software engineering there are a number of such upgrading devices that are red in this respect. 382

In order to be able to measure the progression of their work and in order to be able to recognise slippage as it occurs, the engineers need to be able to make the progression of their work a visible feature of the work. 384
