{\rtf1\ansi\deff1\adeflang1025
{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fprq2\fcharset0 Times New Roman{\*\falt Thorndale};}{\f1\froman\fprq2\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fswiss\fprq2\fcharset0 Arial;}{\f3\fswiss\fprq2\fcharset0 Trebuchet MS;}{\f4\froman\fprq2\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;}
{\stylesheet{\s1\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang1033\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe1033\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033\snext1 Default;}
{\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\aspalpha\rtlch\af1\lang1033\ltrch\dbch\af1\loch\f1\lang2057\sbasedon1\snext2 Normal;}
{\s3\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af2\lang1033\ltrch\dbch\af2\loch\f2\lang1033\sbasedon2\snext3 Standard;}
{\*\cs5\cf0\rtlch\af1\lang1033\ltrch\dbch\af1\loch\f1\lang1033\sbasedon6 Default Paragraph Font;}
{\*\cs6\cf0\rtlch\af1\lang1033\ltrch\dbch\af1\loch\f1\lang2057 Normal;}
}
{\info{\comment StarWriter}{\vern6380}}\deftab720
{\*\pgdsctbl
{\pgdsc0\pgdscuse195\pgwsxn11905\pghsxn16837\marglsxn1134\margrsxn1134\margtsxn1134\margbsxn1134\pgdscnxt0 Default;}}
\paperh16837\paperw11905\margl1134\margr1134\margt1134\margb1134\sectd\sbknone\pgwsxn11905\pghsxn16837\marglsxn1134\margrsxn1134\margtsxn1134\margbsxn1134\ftnbj\ftnstart1\ftnrstcont\ftnnar\aenddoc\aftnrstcont\aftnstart1\aftnnrlc
\pard\plain \s3\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af2\lang1033\ltrch\dbch\af2\loch\f2\lang1033\sl360\slmult1\rtlch\af3\afs20\ltrch\dbch\af3\afs20\loch\f3\fs20 {\ltrch\loch\f3 Project Work: The Organisation of Collaborative Design and Development in Software Engineering}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f3{\i Computer Supported Cooperative Work: The Journal of Collaborative Computing} 5: 369-386, 1996. 369}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f3 GRAHAM BuTTON WES SHARROCK}
\par 
\par {\ltrch\loch\f3 It is commonplace to refer to engineering projects and the easy way in which this term is used can detract from the recognition that the project is a prominent way in which engineering work is socially organised so as to confront the sorts of contingencies
 that face software engineering that we have alluded to such as the threatened curtailment because of. for example, drastic slippage, or such as the pressures to abandon good practice.  372}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f3 Within the profession, and within the organisation we studied, much effort is expended on contriving devices which will provide 'orderliness' in the conduct of work and in ensuring that such devices can be implemented and enforced. These devices are meant 
to enable the achievement of orderly work where it requires the collaborative participation of many individuals, and may, crudely, be characterised as devices which are designed to create and support teamwork; 373}
\par 
\par {\ltrch\loch\f3 Engineers have to use a variety of devices that are not prescribed by the arrangements of the project in order to work up the project, and it is thus through the use of these devices that, (i) the character of work as project work is achieved, and (ii) tha
t the contingencies of development are practically contended with in relation to whatever details the unfolding course of the development turns up. The organisation of engineering work as project work is thus located in these devices which engineers use in
 doing their work and it is to a description of these that we now turn. 373}
\par 
\par {\ltrch\loch\f3 Generally speaking, within the world of work, efforts may be made to 'upgrade' activities, and within the particular work-a-day world of engineers efforts are made to upgrade the production of documentation in order to ensure that it is built into the engi
neer's work. Upgrading the work is a general device that is used to ensure that 'dirty work' gets done and vithin software engineering there are a number of such upgrading devices that are red in this respect. 382}
\par 
\par {\ltrch\loch\f3 {\*\bkmkstart DDE_LINK1}{\*\bkmkend DDE_LINK1}In order to be able to measure the progression of their work and in order to be able to recognise slippage as it occurs, the engineers need to be able to make the progression of their work a visible feature of the work. 384}
\par }