{\rtf1\ansi\deff3\adeflang1025
{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fprq2\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}{\f1\froman\fprq2\fcharset2 Symbol;}{\f2\fswiss\fprq2\fcharset0 Arial;}{\f3\froman\fprq2\fcharset128 Times New Roman;}{\f4\fswiss\fprq2\fcharset128 Arial;}{\f5\fnil\fprq2\fcharset128 DejaVu Sans;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;}
{\stylesheet{\s0\snext0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\aspalpha\ltrpar\cf0\hich\af5\langfe2057\dbch\af5\afs24\lang2057\loch\f3\fs24\lang2057 Normal;}
{\s15\sbasedon0\snext15\sb0\sa120 Text body;}
{\s16\sbasedon15\snext16\li283\ri0\lin283\rin0\fi0\sb0\sa120 Text body indent;}
{\s17\sbasedon0\snext15\sb240\sa120\keepn\hich\af5\dbch\af5\afs28\loch\f4\fs28 Heading;}
{\s18\sbasedon15\snext18\sb0\sa120 List;}
{\s19\sbasedon0\snext19\sb120\sa120\noline\i\afs24\ai\fs24 Caption;}
{\s20\sbasedon0\snext20\noline Index;}
}{\info{\creatim\yr2008\mo1\dy15\hr10\min11}{\author mackenza }{\revtim\yr2011\mo3\dy30\hr16\min1}{\printim\yr0\mo0\dy0\hr0\min0}{\comment LibreOffice}{\vern3300}}\deftab709

{\*\pgdsctbl
{\pgdsc0\pgdscuse195\pgwsxn11905\pghsxn16837\marglsxn1134\margrsxn1134\pgdscnxt0 Default;}}
\formshade\paperh16837\paperw11905\margl1134\margr1134\margt1134\margb1134\sectd\sbknone\sectunlocked1\pgndec\pgwsxn11905\pghsxn16837\marglsxn1134\margrsxn1134\ftnbj\ftnstart1\ftnrstcont\ftnnar\aenddoc\aftnrstcont\aftnstart1\aftnnrlc
\pgndec\pard\plain \s15\sb0\sa120{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
\{Sunder Rajan, 2006 #3, 113\}}
\par \pard\plain \s15\sb0\sa120{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
This fact production is itself \uc3 \u8230\'e2\'80\'a6 never driven by conceptual advances alone but often requires enabling technological advances.  \u8230\'e2\'80\'a6. The development of subjects (as in technoscientific disciplines such as genomics) is, however, always already entwined with the configuration of subjects (as in disciplined agents). 19\uc1 }
\par \pard\plain \s15\sb0\sa120{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
The core theoretical argument of the book is that understanding biocapital involves analyzing the relationship between materiality and modes of abstraction that underlie the coemergences of new forms of life science with market regimes for the conduct of such science. \uc3 \u8230\'e2\'80\'a6 In doing so, for instance, marketing discourse, the hype and hope surrounding emergent technologies, the fetish of genetic determinism, and the belief in science, nation, and religion all constitute the assemblages of postgenomic life. 33\uc1 }
\par \pard\plain \s15\sb0\sa120{\rtlch \ltrch\loch\lang1033
At some fundamental level, it does not }{\i\ai\rtlch \ltrch\loch\lang1033
matter }{\i0\ai0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\lang1033
whether the promissory visions of a biotech company are true or not, as long as they are credible. 115}
\par \pard\plain \s15\sb0\sa120{\i0\ai0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\lang1033
}
\par \pard\plain \s15\sb0\sa120{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
hype cannot be opposed to reality, as is too easily done when hype is read cynically. Rather, hype }{\i\ai\rtlch \ltrch\loch
is }{\i0\ai0\rtlch \ltrch\loch
reality, or at least constitutes the discursive grounds on which reality unfolds. 116}
\par \pard\plain \s15\sb0\sa120{\i0\ai0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\lang1033
Clearly, therefore, promissory visions have been much more than just a feature of the biotech industry: they have enabled it to exist. 126}
\par \pard\plain \s15\sb0\sa120{\i0\ai0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\lang1033
The gap that opens up between promise and its realization is where }{\i\ai\rtlch \ltrch\loch\lang1033
events }{\i0\ai0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\lang1033
 occur, and where }{\i\ai\rtlch \ltrch\loch\lang1033
politics}{\i0\ai0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\lang1033
 -speed and tactics-take over. If promissory visions have made the biotech industry possible, then they have also placed the risk that attends all drug development \uc3 \u8211\'e2\'80\'93 in this case, the risk of not fulfilling one's promise \u8211\'e2\'80\'93 at the heart of the calculus of biotech.  126\uc1 }
\par \pard\plain \s15\sb0\sa120{\i0\ai0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\lang1033
Life, for biocapital, is a business plan 144}
\par \pard\plain \s15\sb0\sa120{\i0\ai0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\lang1033
And yet I argue that it is this temporality \uc3 \u8211\'e2\'80\'93 the different likely rates of realization of each of these genomic advances \u8211\'e2\'80\'93 that is the real issue and get elided. 152\uc1 }
\par \pard\plain \s15\sb0\sa120{\i0\ai0\rtlch \ltrch\loch
new epistemic and technological assemblages such as genomics can only be understood through an analysis of the market frameworks within which they are emergent. 280}
\par \pard\plain \s15\sb0\sa120{\i0\ai0\rtlch \ltrch\loch
}
\par \pard\plain \s15\sb0\sa120{\i0\ai0\rtlch \ltrch\loch
}
\par \pard\plain \s15\sb0\sa120\sb0\sa120{\i0\ai0\rtlch \ltrch\loch
153620 7403}
\par }