{\rtf1\ansi\deff1\adeflang1025
{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fprq2\fcharset0 Times New Roman{\*\falt Thorndale};}{\f1\fnil\fprq0\fcharset0 Trebuchet MS;}{\f2\fnil\fprq0\fcharset0 Trebuchet MS;}{\f3\fnil\fprq2\fcharset0 HG Mincho Light J;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;}
{\stylesheet{\s1{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af3\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang255\snext1 Default;}
{\s2\sa120{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af3\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang255\sbasedon1\snext2 Text body;}
{\s3\sa120{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af3\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang255\sbasedon2\snext3 List;}
{\s4\sb120\sa120{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\afs20\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af3\afs20\langfe255\loch\f1\fs20\lang255\i\sbasedon1\snext4 Caption;}
{\s5{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af3\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang255\sbasedon1\snext5 Index;}
}
{\info{\comment StarWriter}{\vern6380}}\deftab1250
{\*\pgdsctbl
{\pgdsc0\pgdscuse195\pgwsxn11905\pghsxn16837\marglsxn1134\margrsxn1134\margtsxn1134\margbsxn1134\pgdscnxt0 Default;}}
\paperh16837\paperw11905\margl1134\margr1134\margt1134\margb1134\sectd\sbknone\pgwsxn11905\pghsxn16837\marglsxn1134\margrsxn1134\margtsxn1134\margbsxn1134\ftnbj\ftnstart1\ftnrstcont\ftnnar\aenddoc\aftnrstcont\aftnstart1\aftnnrlc
\pard\plain \s1{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af3\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang255 {\ltrch\loch\f1 Crosby, Alfred W.}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f1      The measure of reality : quantification and Western society, 1250-1600 /}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f1    Alfred W. Crosby.  Cambridge [England] ; New York, NY, USA : Cambridge}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f1    University Press, 1997.}
\par 
\par {\ltrch\loch\f1 H.F. Cohen, The Scientific Revolution: a historiographical inquiry (Chicago,}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f1 1994), explains this more fully.}
\par 
\par {\ltrch\loch\f1 Kaye, J.  Economy and Nature in the Fourteenth Century (Cambridge, 1998),}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f1 contains a summary of the more recent literature.}
\par 
\par {\ltrch\loch\f1 Grant, E.  The Foundations of Modern Science in the Middle Ages (Cambridge,}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f1 1996), is perhaps the best introduction to these issues.}
\par 
\par {\ltrch\loch\f1 King, J. and Star, S. L. (1990) \lquote Conceptual foundations for the development of organizational decision support systems', Proceedings of the 23rd Hawaiian International Conference on Systems Sciences, vol. 3, Washington, DC: IEEE Press, pp. 142i-51; revised
 version in Organization Science, forthcoming.}
\par 
\par {\ltrch\loch\f1 Crombie, A. C. (1961) Augustine to Galileo, Cambridge, MA: Harvard LJniversity Press.}
\par 
\par {\ltrch\loch\f1 Bud-Frierman, Lisa {\i Information acumen The understanding and use of knowledge in modern business}}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f1 Edited by 1994 Routledge}
\par 
\par \pard\plain \s2\sa120{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af3\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang255 {\ltrch\loch\f1 Boden, Deirdre  {\i The Business of Talk Organizations in Action }Polity Press 1994}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f1 Monk,Simon & Sommerville, Ian Jean Michel Pendaries & Bernard Durin, "Supporting Design Rationale for System Evolution',  1995, 307-323}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f1 Bowers, John 'The Politics of Formalism', {\i Contexts of Computer Mediated Communication, }ed. Martin Lea, Harvester Wheatsheaf, 1992}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f1 Kotonya, Gerald, & Sommerville, Ian {\i Requirements Engineering. Processes and Techniques, }John Wiley & Sons, 2001}
\par \pard\plain \s2\sa120{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af3\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang255\li283\ri0\fi0 {\ltrch\loch\f1 Wieringa, R.J. {\i Requirements Engineering. Frameworks for Understanding, } John Wiley & Sons, 1996}
\par }