      
Reading the figural, or Philosophy after the new media                  D.N. Rodowick,       Duke University Press Durham London 2001      

 I argued that three fundamental questions need to be asked to understand digital culture critically. Firstly, how is the nature of representation and communication changing with respect to the digital creation, manipulation, and distribution of signs? Second, how is the form of the commodity changing along with its determinations of the space and time of the market, and the nature and value of exchange? And finally, how is our experience of collectivity changing, or, in Deleuze and Guattari's terminology, how are our “collective arrangements" in social time and space being restructured by the new communicational architectures of digital culture? 210      
Foucault suggests that we can map or diagram the social architecture of power by asking: How is space divided? How is time ordered? What strategies of composing bodies in space-time are deployed? If there is indeed a social architecture of space and time structured by the transmission of information, then what kinds of communicational structures do we inhabit in the collective arrangements of both wired and wireless networks? 221                   
Understanding what virtualities reside in the forces unleashed by cybernetic arrangements may well mean unlocking how technological concepts translate into new categories of social experience, or how a machine logic or architecture may insinuate itself into the relations of power that flow through us and connect us one to another. Even “scientific" concepts remain external to the technologies in which they are functionalized, and in this way they express sets of powers or potentialities that can flow in contrary directions. 228      	            
