{\rtf1\ansi\deff1\adeflang1025
{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fprq2\fcharset0 Times New Roman{\*\falt Thorndale};}{\f1\fnil\fprq0\fcharset0 Trebuchet MS;}{\f2\fnil\fprq0\fcharset0 Trebuchet MS;}{\f3\fnil\fprq0\fcharset0 Arial;}{\f4\fnil\fprq2\fcharset0 HG Mincho Light J;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;}
{\stylesheet{\s1\cf0\rtlch\af1\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af4\snext1 Default;}
{\s2\sa120\cf0\rtlch\af1\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af4\sbasedon1\snext2 Text body;}
{\s3\sa120\cf0\rtlch\af1\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af4\sbasedon2\snext3 List;}
{\s4\sb120\sa120\cf0\rtlch\af1\afs20\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af4\afs20\loch\fs20\i\sbasedon1\snext4 Caption;}
{\s5\cf0\rtlch\af1\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af4\sbasedon1\snext5 Index;}
{\s6\sb240\sa120\keepn\cf0\rtlch\af1\afs28\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs28\loch\f3\fs28\sbasedon1\snext2 Heading;}
}
{\info{\comment StarWriter}{\vern6410}}\deftab1250
{\*\pgdsctbl
{\pgdsc0\pgdscuse195\pgwsxn11905\pghsxn16837\marglsxn1134\margrsxn1134\margtsxn1134\margbsxn1134\pgdscnxt0 Default;}}
\paperh16837\paperw11905\margl1134\margr1134\margt1134\margb1134\sectd\sbknone\pgwsxn11905\pghsxn16837\marglsxn1134\margrsxn1134\margtsxn1134\margbsxn1134\ftnbj\ftnstart1\ftnrstcont\ftnnar\aenddoc\aftnrstcont\aftnstart1\aftnnrlc
\pard\plain \s1\cf0\rtlch\af1\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af4 {\ltrch\loch\f1       \line {\i Reading the figural, or Philosophy after the new media }                 D.N. Rodowick,       Duke University Press Durham London 2001      }
\par 
\par {\ltrch\loch\f1  I argued that three fundamental questions need to be asked to understand digital culture critically. Firstly, how is the nature of representation and communication changing with respect to the digital creation, manipulation, and distribution of signs? Sec
ond, how is the form of the commodity changing along with its determinations of the space and time of the market, and the nature and value of exchange? And finally, how is our experience of collectivity changing, or, in Deleuze and Guattari's terminology, 
how are our \ldblquote collective arrangements" in social time and space being restructured by the new communicational architectures of digital culture? 210      }
\par {\ltrch\loch\f1 Foucault suggests that we can map or diagram the social architecture of power by asking: How is space divided? How is time ordered? What strategies of composing bodies in space-time are deployed? If there is indeed a social architecture of space and time s
tructured by the transmission of information, then what kinds of communicational structures do we inhabit in the collective arrangements of both wired and wireless networks? 221                   }
\par {\ltrch\loch\f1 Understanding what virtualities reside in the forces unleashed by cybernetic arrangements may well mean unlocking how technological concepts translate into new categories of social experience, or how a machine logic or architecture may insinuate itself int
o the relations of power that flow through us and connect us one to another. Even \ldblquote scientific" concepts remain external to the technologies in which they are functionalized, and in this way they express sets of powers or potentialities that can flow in con
trary directions. 228      \tab             }
\par }