{\rtf1\ansi\deff1\adeflang1025
{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fprq2\fcharset0 Times New Roman{\*\falt Thorndale};}{\f1\fnil\fprq0\fcharset0 Trebuchet MS;}{\f2\fnil\fprq0\fcharset0 Trebuchet MS;}{\f3\fnil\fprq2\fcharset0 HG Mincho Light J;}{\f4\fnil\fprq2\fcharset0 Arial Unicode MS;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;}
{\stylesheet{\s1{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af3\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033\snext1 Default;}
{\s2\sa120{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af3\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033\sbasedon1\snext2 Text body;}
{\s3\sa120{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af3\afs24\langfe255\loch\fs24\lang1033\sbasedon2\snext3 List;}
{\s4\sb120\sa120{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\afs20\lang255\ai\ltrch\dbch\af3\afs20\langfe255\ai\loch\fs20\lang1033\i\sbasedon1\snext4 Caption;}
{\s5{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af3\afs24\langfe255\loch\fs24\lang1033\sbasedon1\snext5 Index;}
}
{\info{\comment StarWriter}{\vern6410}}\deftab1250
{\*\pgdsctbl
{\pgdsc0\pgdscuse195\pgwsxn11905\pghsxn16837\marglsxn1134\margrsxn1134\margtsxn1134\margbsxn1134\pgdscnxt0 Default;}}
\paperh16837\paperw11905\margl1134\margr1134\margt1134\margb1134\sectd\sbknone\pgwsxn11905\pghsxn16837\marglsxn1134\margrsxn1134\margtsxn1134\margbsxn1134\ftnbj\ftnstart1\ftnrstcont\ftnnar\aenddoc\aftnrstcont\aftnstart1\aftnnrlc
\pard\plain \s1{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af3\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033 {\ltrch\loch\f1 SALUS, Peter H.  A quarter century of UNIX.  Addison-Wesley, 1994. - 256p.}
\par 
\par {\ltrch\loch\f1 Gene Spafford of Purdue University remarked to me that an operating system \ldblquote is there to provide more convenient abstractions. One of my former professors, Phil Enslow, used to define an OS as the mechanisms, policies, and procedures that supported the cont
rolled sharing of computing resources.\rdblquote  (Salus, 1994, 22)}
\par 
\par {\ltrch\loch\f1 The power of Unix originated here, from the relationships generated among programs, not from individual programs themselves (Salus, 1994, 53)}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f1 On January 14, 1949, the Truman administration, through the Antitrust Division of the Department of Justice of the United states of America filed a complaint against the Western Electric Company, Inc., and the American Telephone and Telegraph Compnay in th
e District Court for the District of New Jersey, complaining that the companies were acting in restrain of trade in violoation of the Sherman Antitrust Act. After extensive negotiations, and in the very different political environment of the first Eisenhow
er administration, Judge Thomas F. Meaney entered a \ldblquote consent decree\rdblquote  on January 24, 1956, \ldblquote without trial or adjudication of any issues of fact or law herein and without  this Final Judgment constituting any evidence or admission  by an party ...\rdblquote  56}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f1 AT&T and Western Electric were enjoined \ldblquote from commencing ... manufacture for sale or lease any equipment [other than that used in providing telephone or telegraph services],\rdblquote  with a few exceptions; ... AT&T was enjoined \ldblquote from engaging in any business other
 than the fusnihsing of common carrier communications services...\rdblquote , with a few exceptions. Exception (b) was, \ldblquote experiments for the purpose of testing or developing new common carrier communications services.\rdblquote  (Salus, 1994, 56-57)}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f1 Most of the decree concerns manufacture or equiment, purchase and resale, accounting methods, and the licensing of patents. As might be expected in early 1956, there is no mention of computers or software. Licensing-which was mentioned, but not features-wa
s to prove to be of far greater importance than had been foreseen. (Salus, 1994, 57)}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f1 In this case, the terms of the decree required AT&T/Western Electric/Bell Laboratories to licence to anyone at nominal fees. Thus, the decree resulted in a much more rapid dissemination of technology than would have possible under our patent law (Salus, 19
94, 57-58)}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f1 The decision on the part of the AT&T lawyers to allow education institutions to receive Unix, but to deny support or bug fixes had an immediate effect: it forced users to share with one another. They shared ideas, information, programs, bug fixes, and hard
ware fixes. (Salus, 1994, 65)}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f1 But on November 1974, the US government filed a separate antitrust action against AT&T, Western Electric, and Bell Telephone Labs. ... The Antitrust Division of the Department of Justic sought the divestitute from AT&T of the Bell Operating Companies and t
he dissolution of Western Electric. (Salus, 1994, 189)}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f1 [T]he result of Judge Green's Opinion was that Western Electric was dissolved, that the various operating companies formed the \ldblquote Baby Bells\rdblquote  (in 1984), that Bell Telephone Labs was split off, renamed AT&T Bell Laboratories (and Bellcore was formed) and that
 AT&T was now permitted to enter the hardware and software computer business.}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f1 This is what brought about System V in 1983, as well as a totally new set of licensing terms from AT&T. (Salus, 1994, 190)}
\par }