{\rtf1\ansi\deff1\adeflang1025
{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fprq2\fcharset0 Nimbus Roman No9 L{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f1\fnil\fprq0\fcharset0 Palatino;}{\f2\fnil\fprq0\fcharset0 Trebuchet MS;}{\f3\fnil\fprq0\fcharset0 Arial;}{\f4\fnil\fprq0\fcharset0 Arial;}{\f5\fnil\fprq2\fcharset0 Nimbus Sans L{\*\falt Arial};}{\f6\fnil\fprq2\fcharset0 HG Mincho Light J{\*\falt msmincho};}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;}
{\stylesheet{\s1\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af5\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af5\langfe255\hich\f1\fs24\lang1033\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033\snext1 Normal;}
{\s2\sb240\sa120\keepn\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\afs28\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af6\langfe255\hich\f3\fs28\lang1033\loch\f3\fs28\lang1033\sbasedon1\snext3 Heading;}
{\s3\sa120\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af5\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af5\langfe255\hich\f1\fs24\lang1033\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033\sbasedon1\snext3 Body Text;}
{\s4\sa120\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af5\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af5\langfe255\hich\f2\fs24\lang1033\loch\f2\fs24\lang1033\sbasedon3\snext4 List;}
{\s5\sb120\sa120\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af5\afs20\lang255\ai\ltrch\dbch\af5\langfe255\hich\f2\fs20\lang1033\i\loch\f2\fs20\lang1033\i\sbasedon1\snext5 caption;}
{\s6\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af5\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af5\langfe255\hich\f2\fs24\lang1033\loch\f2\fs24\lang1033\sbasedon1\snext6 Index;}
}
{\info{\creatim\yr2005\mo10\dy28\hr15\min1}{\revtim\yr1601\mo1\dy1\hr0\min0}{\printim\yr1601\mo1\dy1\hr0\min0}{\comment StarWriter}{\vern6800}}\deftab709
{\*\pgdsctbl
{\pgdsc0\pgdscuse195\pgwsxn11905\pghsxn16837\marglsxn1134\margrsxn1134\margtsxn1134\margbsxn1134\pgdscnxt0 Standard;}}
\paperh16837\paperw11905\margl1134\margr1134\margt1134\margb1134\sectd\sbknone\pgwsxn11905\pghsxn16837\marglsxn1134\margrsxn1134\margtsxn1134\margbsxn1134\ftnbj\ftnstart1\ftnrstcont\ftnnar\aenddoc\aftnrstcont\aftnstart1\aftnnrlc
\pard\plain \ltrpar\s1\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af4\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af4\langfe255\hich\f4\fs24\lang1033\loch\f4\fs24\lang1033 {\rtlch \ltrch\loch\f4\fs24\lang1033\i0\b0 Sassen, S. (2000). "Digital Networks and the State. Some Governance Questions." {\ul\ulc0 Theory, Culture & Society} {\b 17}(4): 19\'9633.}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s3\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\rtlch\af5\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af5\langfe255\hich\f1\fs24\lang1033\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033 {\rtlch \ltrch\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033\i0\b0 One fact that is too often left out of generalized commentaries about the Internet is that there is a kind of central authority overseeing some of the crucial features of the Net, having to do with addresses and numbers granting and the domain name system.
 22}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s3\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\rtlch\af5\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af5\langfe255\hich\f1\fs24\lang1033\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033 {\rtlch \ltrch\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033\i0\b0 While the purpose of these governing mechanisms is not about regulation as we have known it, their existence and, perhaps more importantly, the necessity for some such bodies, represents a signi\uc3 \u64257\'ef\'ac\'81\uc1 cant operational opening for some sort of regulation/governan
ce. This is often overlooked in discussions about the Net and its freedoms. As the Internet has grown, become more international and gained in economic importance, there appears to be growing concern that a more organized and accountable system is necessar
y. This signals the presence of sectors that want to strengthen and develop this central authority. 24 }
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s3\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\rtlch\af5\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af5\langfe255\hich\f1\fs24\lang1033\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033 {\rtlch \ltrch\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033\i0\b0 But the Internet is only one portion of the vast new world of digital space, and much of the power to neutralize sovereignty attributed to the Internet actually comes from the existence of private digital networks, such as those used in international \uc3 \u64257\'ef\'ac\'81\uc1 nanc
e. 25}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s3\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\rtlch\af5\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af5\langfe255\hich\f1\fs24\lang1033\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033 {\rtlch \ltrch\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033\i0\b0 Private digital networks make possible forms of power other than the distributed power we associate with public access digital networks. The \uc3 \u64257\'ef\'ac\'81\uc1 nancial markets illustrate this well. 25}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s3\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\rtlch\af5\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af5\langfe255\hich\f1\fs24\lang1033\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033 {\rtlch \ltrch\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033\i0\b0 It is signi\uc3 \u64257\'ef\'ac\'81\uc1 cant that, although in some ways the power of these \uc3 \u64257\'ef\'ac\'81\uc1 nancial digital networks rests on a kind of distributed power, i.e. millions of investors and their millions of decisions, it ends up as concentrated power. The trajectory followed by what be
gins as a form of distributed power may assume many forms, in this case one radically different from that of the Internet. It signals the possibility that digital network power is not inherently distributive.  27}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s3\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\rtlch\af5\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af5\langfe255\hich\f1\fs24\lang1033\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033 {\rtlch \ltrch\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033\i0\b0 The embeddedness of private economic electronic space entails the formation of massive concentrations of infrastructure, not only worldwide dispersal, and a complex interaction between conventional communications infrastructure and digitalization. 28}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s3\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\rtlch\af5\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af5\langfe255\hich\f1\fs24\lang1033\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033 {\rtlch \ltrch\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033\i0\b0 If we are going to consider issues of sovereignty and democracy, then we must ask a critical question about what actors are gaining in\uc3 \u64258\'ef\'ac\'82\uc1 uence under conditions of digitization and whose claims are gaining legitimacy. For instance, it could be argued (and it 
is my argument) that private digital space has had a far sharper impact on questions of sovereignty than the Internet. 28}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s3\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\rtlch\af5\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af5\langfe255\hich\f1\fs24\lang1033\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033 {\rtlch \ltrch\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033\i0\b0 When it comes to the Internet\uc3 \u8217\'e2\'80\'99\uc1 s capacity to undermine state authority and the state\uc3 \u8217\'e2\'80\'99\uc1 s capacity to regulate the Internet, two issues stand out in my reading. One is that the state has instruments through which it can exercise a certain kind of authority, es
pecially through the venue of technical standards in the hardware and software, through the protection of property rights and, quite likely, through some of the features of the Internet addressing system and domain registry. The second is that much of the 
work of developing the instruments through which the state can exercise this authority is dominated by a limited number of countries, and, in some aspects, largely by the US, certainly until recently. This leaves most states in the world in the position of
 having to implement and enforce standards and property rights developed elsewhere if various digital networks in their countries are going to be connected to the Internet, which they mostly are already today. 29}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s3\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\rtlch\af5\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af5\langfe255\hich\f1\fs24\lang1033\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033 {\rtlch \ltrch\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033\i0\b0 The greatest challenge comes from the lack of accountability built into many of the capabilities that can be deployed by powerful actors, be they private or governmental, in the pursuit of their interests. This gives such unaccountable actors the power to 
shape potentially key features of Internet use and access. 29}
\par }