Latour, Bruno. 1987. Science in Action, Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press


For a Copernican revolution to take place it does not matter what means are used provided this goal is achieved: a shift in what counts as centre and what counts as periphery. For instance, nothing dominates us more than the stars. It seems that there is no way to reverse the scale and to make us, the astronomers, able to master the sky above our heads. The situation is quickly reversed, however, when Tycho Brahe, inside a well equipped observatory built for him at Oranenbourg [sic], starts not only to write down on the same homogeneous charts the positions of the planets, but also to gather the sightings made by other astronomers all over Europe which he had asked them to write down on the same preprinted forms he has sent them. Here again a virtuous cumulative circle starts to unfold if all sightings at different places and times are gathered together and synoptically displayed. The positive loop runs all the more rapidly, if the same Brahe is able to gather in the same place not only fresh observations made by him and his colleagues, but all the older books of astronomy that the printing press has made available at a low cost. His mind has not undergone a mutation; his eyes are not suddenly freed from old prejudices; he is not watching the summer sky more carefully than anyone before. But he is the first indeed to consider at a glance the summer sky, plus his observations, plus those of his collaborators, plus Copernicus’ books, plus many versions of Ptolemy’s Almagest; the first to sit at the beginning and at the end of a long network that generates what I will call immutable and combinable mobiles (Latour 1987, 226-7)

