{\rtf1\ansi\deff1\adeflang1025
{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fprq2\fcharset0 Times New Roman{\*\falt Thorndale};}{\f1\fnil\fprq0\fcharset0 Trebuchet MS;}{\f2\fnil\fprq0\fcharset0 Trebuchet MS;}{\f3\fswiss\fprq2\fcharset0 Arial{\*\falt Albany};}{\f4\fnil\fprq2\fcharset0 HG Mincho Light J;}{\f5\fnil\fprq2\fcharset0 Arial Unicode MS;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;}
{\stylesheet{\s1{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af4\loch\f1\snext1 Default;}
{\s2\sa120\rtlch\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\loch\lang1033\sbasedon1\snext2 Text body;}
{\s3\rtlch\lang255\ltrch\loch\lang1033\sbasedon2\snext3 List;}
{\s4\sb120\sa120\rtlch\afs20\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs20\loch\f1\fs20\lang1033\i\sbasedon1\snext4 Caption;}
{\s5\rtlch\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\loch\f1\lang1033\sbasedon1\snext5 Index;}
{\s6\sb240\sa120\keepn{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af5\afs28\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af4\afs28\loch\f3\fs28\sbasedon1\snext2 Heading;}
}
{\info{\comment StarWriter}{\vern6410}}\deftab1250
{\*\pgdsctbl
{\pgdsc0\pgdscuse195\pgwsxn11905\pghsxn16837\marglsxn1134\margrsxn1134\margtsxn1134\margbsxn1134\pgdscnxt0 Default;}}
{\*\pgdscno0}\paperh16837\paperw11905\margl1134\margr1134\margt1134\margb1134\sectd\sbknone\pgwsxn11905\pghsxn16837\marglsxn1134\margrsxn1134\margtsxn1134\margbsxn1134\ftnbj\ftnstart1\ftnrstcont\ftnnar\aenddoc\aftnrstcont\aftnstart1\aftnnrlc
\pard\plain \s2\sa120\rtlch\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\loch\lang1033\ltrch\loch\fs20\lang2057 {\ltrch\loch\f1 Shields, Rob {\i The Virtual,} Routledge, London & New York, 2003}
\par \pard\plain \s2\sa120\rtlch\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\loch\lang1033\ltrch\loch\fs20\lang2057 {\ltrch\loch\f1 Today's tight connection of the virtual to the digital hardware and software is a new form. It represents a return of 'the virtual' in our social activity. Some would just dismiss the term as an overused and underdefined label. However, this ironically rec
ognises that, at a minimum, 'the virtual' is one of the most important marketing terms for the high-tech sector which is claimed to dirve the development of a putative high-tech, knowledge-oriented 'virtual society.' (19)}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f1 The virtual troubles any simple negation because it introduces multiplicity into the otherwise fixed category of the real. As such the tangible, actually real phenomenon ceases to be the sole, hegemonic examples of 'reality.' (21)}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f1 Operating with a simple notion of the tangible and the original as the one and only 'actually real' leads to a series of conundrums over anything produced from a model or in a series, such as in the case of mass production. The solution is not to debate th
e reality of the virtual, but to develop a more sophisticated theory of the real and the ways in which the {\i virtual} and the {\i concrete} are different really existing forms, how they are related to each other and to non-existing {\i abstractions} and {\i probabilities. }
(21)}
\par \pard\plain \s2\sa120\rtlch\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\loch\lang1033\ltrch\loch\fs20 {\ltrch\loch\f1 The hype around digital virtuality over the past decade has been more about myth and less about actual cyberspaces. As fad and myth, virtualism is itself virtual. (15)}
\par 
\par }