{\rtf1\ansi\deff1\adeflang1025
{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fprq2\fcharset0 Times New Roman{\*\falt Thorndale};}{\f1\fnil\fprq0\fcharset0 Trebuchet MS;}{\f2\fnil\fprq0\fcharset0 Trebuchet MS;}{\f3\fnil\fprq2\fcharset0 HG Mincho Light J;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;}
{\stylesheet{\s1\cf0\rtlch\af1\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af3\snext1 Default;}
{\s2\sa120\cf0\rtlch\af1\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af3\sbasedon1\snext2 Text body;}
{\s3\sa120\cf0\rtlch\af1\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af3\sbasedon2\snext3 List;}
{\s4\sb120\sa120\cf0\rtlch\af1\afs20\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af3\afs20\loch\fs20\i\sbasedon1\snext4 Caption;}
{\s5\cf0\rtlch\af1\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af3\sbasedon1\snext5 Index;}
}
{\info{\comment StarWriter}{\vern6380}}\deftab1250
{\*\pgdsctbl
{\pgdsc0\pgdscuse195\pgwsxn11905\pghsxn16837\marglsxn1134\margrsxn1134\margtsxn1134\margbsxn1134\pgdscnxt0 Default;}}
\paperh16837\paperw11905\margl1134\margr1134\margt1134\margb1134\sectd\sbknone\pgwsxn11905\pghsxn16837\marglsxn1134\margrsxn1134\margtsxn1134\margbsxn1134\ftnbj\ftnstart1\ftnrstcont\ftnnar\aenddoc\aftnrstcont\aftnstart1\aftnnrlc
\pard\plain \s1\cf0\rtlch\af1\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af3 {\ltrch\loch\f1 Bowker, Geoffrey C. & Star, Susan Leigh {\i Sorting Things Out. Classification and Its Consequences}, (MIT Press, Cambridge MA, 1999)}
\par 
\par {\ltrch\loch\f1 Information instrastructure is a tricky thing to analyze. Good, usable systems disappear almost be definition. ...}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f1 Infrastructures are never transparent for everyone, and their workability as they scale up becomes increasingly complex. Through due methodological attention to the architecture and use of these systems, we can achieve a deeper understanding of how individ
uals and communities meet infrastructure. (Bowker & Star, 1999, 33)}
\par 
\par {\ltrch\loch\f1 All classification and standardization schemes are a mixture of physical entities, such as paper forms, plugs, or software instructions encoded in silicon, and conventional arrangements such as speed and rhythm, dimension, and how specifications are implem
ented. (Bowker & Star, 1999, 39)}
\par 
\par {\ltrch\loch\f1 In general, the trick is to question every apparently natural easiness in the world around us and look for the work involved in making it easy. Within a  project or on a desktop, the seeing consists in seamlessly moving between the physical and the convent
ional. (Bowker & Star, 1999, 39)}
\par 
\par {\ltrch\loch\f1 In the past 100 years, people in all lines of work have jointly constructed an incredible, interlocking set of categories, standards, and means for interoperating infrastructural technologies. We hardly know what we have built. No one is in control of infr
astructure; no one has the power centrally to change it. To the extent that we live in, on, and around this new infrastructure, it helps form the shape of our moral, scientific, and esthetic choices. Infrastructure is now the great inner space. (Bowker & S
tar, 1999, 319)}
\par 
\par {\ltrch\loch\f1 We need to recognize that all information systems are necessarily suffused with ethical and political values, modulated by local administrative procedures. (Bowker & Star, 1999, 321)}
\par 
\par {\ltrch\loch\f1 There are good organizational reasons for working around formal systems; these adaptations are necessarily local. What is global is the need for them. (Bowker & Star, 1999, 321)}
\par 
\par {\ltrch\loch\f1 As sets of classification systems coalesce into working infrastructures they become integrated into information systems of all sorts. ... [I]nformation systems design should be informed by organizational and political analysis at this level. Rather we have
-along with many researchers in the field of social informatics-demonstrated empirically that invisible organizational structures influence the design and use of systems. (Bowker & Star, 1999, 323)}
\par 
\par {\ltrch\loch\f1 Working infrastructures contain multiple classification systems that are both invisible, in the senses above, and ubiquitous. The invisibility of infrastructure makes visualization or description difficult. ... Our infrastructural metaphors show how baffle
d we often are by these systems. They are like undergarments or tunnel dwellers. (Bowker & Star, 1999, 232)}
\par 
\par {\ltrch\loch\f1 It is politically and ethically crucial to recognize the vital role of infrastructure in the \ldblquote built moral environment.\rdblquote  Seemingly purely technical issues like how to name things and how to store data in fact constitute much of what we have come to know as 
natural. (Bowker & Star, 1999, 326)}
\par 
\par 
\par {\ltrch\loch\f1 On naturalisation of categories/classifiactions (as part of membership of a community of practice):}
\par 
\par {\ltrch\loch\f1 \ldblquote A naturalized (sic) object has lost its anthropological strangeness. It is in that narrow sense desituated- members have forgotten the local nature of the object\rquote s meaning or the actions that go into maintaining and recreating its meaning\rdblquote  ((Bowker & Star
, 1999,  299).}
\par 
\par {\ltrch\loch\f1 As Sacks (1992) points out, the ordinary is made and remade every day (ie. naturalisation involves work!). He \ldblquote draws attention to the ways in which being ordinary are not pregiven but are in fact a kind of job\rdblquote  (Bowker and Star, 1999, 295).}
\par 
\par 
\par {\ltrch\loch\f1 Jackson (1989)}
\par 
\par {\ltrch\loch\f1 p 122-3}
\par 
\par {\ltrch\loch\f1 \ldblquote as Ludwig Binswanger and Merleau-Ponty have argues, meaning should not be reduced to a sign which, as it were, lies on a seperate plane outside the immdiate domain of an act. For instance, when our familiar environment is suddenly disrupted we feel uproot
ed, we are thrown, we collapse, we fall. But such falling, Binswanger says, is not \lquote something metaphorical derived from physical falling\rquote , a mere manner of speaking; it is a shock and disorientation which occurs sumultaneously in body and mind,a nd refers 
to a basic ontological structure of our being-in-the-world (Binswanger 1963: 222-25; Reich 1949:435)\rdblquote  }
\par 
\par 
\par {\ltrch\loch\f1 de Certeau (1988)}
\par 
\par {\ltrch\loch\f1 p 121 \ldblquote The map, a totalizing (sic) stage on which elements of diverse origin are brought together to form the tableau of the \lquote state\rquote  of geographical knowledge, pushes away into its prehistory or into its posterity, as if into the wings, the operations of w
hich it is the result or the neccessary condition\rdblquote . }
\par 
\par {\ltrch\loch\f1 (just as diagrams do not reveal the practices, material bases and social relations that are the neccessary condition of their production)}
\par 
\par 
\par }