{\rtf1\ansi\deff1\adeflang1025
{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fprq2\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fnil\fprq0\fcharset0 Trebuchet MS;}{\f2\fnil\fprq0\fcharset0 Trebuchet MS;}{\f3\fnil\fprq2\fcharset0 Arial Unicode MS;}{\f4\fnil\fprq2\fcharset0 Tahoma;}{\f5\fnil\fprq0\fcharset0 Tahoma;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;}
{\stylesheet{\s1\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af4\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af3\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\snext1 Default;}
{\s2\sa120\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af4\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af3\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\sbasedon1\snext2 Text body;}
{\s3\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af5\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af3\afs24\langfe255\loch\fs24\lang2057\sbasedon2\snext3 List;}
{\s4\sb120\sa120\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af5\afs20\lang255\ai\ltrch\dbch\af3\afs20\langfe255\ai\loch\fs20\lang2057\i\sbasedon1\snext4 Caption;}
{\s5\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af5\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af3\afs24\langfe255\loch\fs24\lang2057\sbasedon1\snext5 Index;}
}
{\info{\creatim\yr2004\mo3\dy10\hr14\min58}{\revtim\yr2004\mo3\dy10\hr15\min0}{\printim\yr1601\mo1\dy1\hr0\min0}{\comment StarWriter}{\vern6450}}\deftab709
{\*\pgdsctbl
{\pgdsc0\pgdscuse195\pgwsxn11905\pghsxn16837\marglsxn1134\margrsxn1134\margtsxn1134\margbsxn1134\pgdscnxt0 Default;}}
\paperh16837\paperw11905\margl1134\margr1134\margt1134\margb1134\sectd\sbknone\pgwsxn11905\pghsxn16837\marglsxn1134\margrsxn1134\margtsxn1134\margbsxn1134\ftnbj\ftnstart1\ftnrstcont\ftnnar\aenddoc\aftnrstcont\aftnstart1\aftnnrlc
\pard\plain \ltrpar\s1\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af4\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af3\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057 {\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 {\*\bkmkstart DDE_LINK1}{\*\bkmkend DDE_LINK1}Star, Susan Leigh, Ruhleder, Karen, \ldblquote Steps Toward an Ecology of Infrastructure: Design and Access for Large Information Spaces\rdblquote   Information Systems Research, March 1996, 7.1, 111-134 }
\par 
\par {\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 With the rise of decentralized technologies used across wide geographical distance, both the need for common standards and the need for situated, tailorable and flexible technologies grow stronger. A lowest common denominator will not solve the demands for
 customized possibilities; neither will rigid standards resolve the issue. It is impossible to have \ldblquote universal niches\rdblquote ; one person\rquote s standard is in fact another\rquote s chaos. There are no genuine universals in the design of large-scale information technology. (
Star & Ruhleder, 1996, 112)}
\par 
\par {\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 What is the relationship between large scale infrastructure and organizational change? Who (or what) is changer, and who changed? (Star & Ruhleder, 1996, 112)}
\par 
\par {\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 A tool is not just a thing with pre-given attributes frozen in time- but a thing becomes a tool in practice, for someone, when connected to some particular activity. ... The tool  emerges in situ. By analogy, infrastructure is something that emerges for pe
ople in practice, connected to activities and structures. (Star & Ruhleder, 1996, 112)}
\par 
\par {\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 We hold that infrastructure is a fundamentally relational concept. It becomes infrastructure in relation to organized practices. ... Thus we ask, when-not what-is an infrastructure. (Star & Ruhleder, 1996, 113)}
\par 
\par {\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 Analytically, infrastructure appears only as a relational property, not as a thing stripped of use. (Star & Ruhleder, 1996, 113)}
\par 
\par {\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 An infrastructure occurs when the tension between local and global is resolved. That is, an infrastructure occurs when local practices are afforded by a larger-scale technology, which can then be used in a natural, ready-to-hand fashion. It becomes transpa
rent as local variations are folded into organizational changes, and becomes an unambiguous home-for somebody. (Star & Ruhleder, 1996, 114)}
\par 
\par {\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 Information infrastructure is not a substrate which carries information on it, or in it, in a kind of mind-body dichotomy. The discontinuities are not between system and person, or technology and organization, but rather between contexts. (Star & Ruhleder,
 1996, 118)}
\par 
\par {\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 Experience with groupware suggests that highly structured applications for collaboration will fail to become integrated into local work practices. ... Rather, experimentation over time results in the emergence of a complex constellation of locally-tailored
 applications and repositories, combined with pockets of local knowledge and expertise. They begin to interweave themselves with elements of the formal infrastructure to create a unique and evolving hybrid. This evolution is facilitated by those elements o
f the formal structure which support the redefinition of local roles and the emergence of communities of practice around the intersection of specific technologies and types of problems. (Star & Ruhleder, 1996, 132)}
\par }