{\rtf1\ansi\deff1\adeflang1025
{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fprq2\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fnil\fprq0\fcharset0 Trebuchet MS;}{\f2\fnil\fprq0\fcharset0 Trebuchet MS;}{\f3\fswiss\fprq2\fcharset0 Arial;}{\f4\fnil\fprq2\fcharset0 HG Mincho Light J;}{\f5\fnil\fprq2\fcharset0 MS Mincho;}{\f6\fnil\fprq2\fcharset0 Tahoma;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;}
{\stylesheet{\s1\cf0\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af4\afs24\langfe255\loch\fs24\lang2057\snext1 Default;}
{\s2\sa120\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\afs24\langfe255\loch\fs24\lang1033\sbasedon1\snext2 Text body;}
{\s3\cf0\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\sbasedon2\snext3 List;}
{\s4\sb120\sa120\rtlch\afs20\lang255\ai\ltrch\dbch\afs20\langfe255\ai\loch\f1\fs20\lang1033\i\sbasedon1\snext4 Caption;}
{\s5\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033\sbasedon1\snext5 Index;}
{\s6\sb240\sa120\keepn\rtlch\af6\afs28\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af5\afs28\langfe255\loch\f3\fs28\lang1033\sbasedon1\snext2 Heading;}
{\s7\cf0\rtlch\afs32\lang255\ab\ltrch\dbch\afs32\langfe255\ab\loch\fs32\lang2057\b\sbasedon6\snext2{\*\soutlvl0} Heading 1;}
{\s8\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af1\afs28\lang255\ai\ab\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs28\langfe255\ai\ab\loch\f1\fs28\lang2057\i\b\sbasedon6\snext2{\*\soutlvl1} Heading 2;}
}
{\info{\creatim\yr2003\mo7\dy17\hr10\min7}{\revtim\yr1601\mo1\dy1\hr0\min0}{\printim\yr1601\mo1\dy1\hr0\min0}{\comment StarWriter}{\vern6450}}\deftab1250
{\*\pgdsctbl
{\pgdsc0\pgdscuse195\pgwsxn11905\pghsxn16837\marglsxn1134\margrsxn1134\margtsxn1134\margbsxn1134\pgdscnxt0 Default;}}
{\*\pgdscno0}\paperh16837\paperw11905\margl1134\margr1134\margt1134\margb1134\sectd\sbknone\pgwsxn11905\pghsxn16837\marglsxn1134\margrsxn1134\margtsxn1134\margbsxn1134\ftnbj\ftnstart1\ftnrstcont\ftnnar\aenddoc\aftnrstcont\aftnstart1\aftnnrlc
\pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\sa120\ql\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\afs24\langfe255\loch\fs24\lang1033{\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\i\b0\lang2057{\i Alternate Interfaces Stelarc}}{\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\lang2057, Faculty of Art & Design, Monash University, 2002}
\par \pard\plain \sb240\sa120\keepn\f3\fs28\lang1033\i\b\f5\fs28\i\b\f6\fs28\i\b \ltrpar\s8\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af1\afs28\lang255\ai\ab\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs28\langfe255\ai\ab\loch\f1\fs28\lang2057\i\b {\loch\f3\fs28\lang1033\i\b Marina Grzinic, 'Politics of the Body'}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\sa120\ql\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\afs24\langfe255\loch\fs24\lang2057 {\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 'Instead of the simulated body we produce the politics of the body. This means establishing in the cyber-universe the process of the re-articulation of its hidden materiality supporters-which the physical body and technology are.' (13)}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\sa120\ql\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\afs24\langfe255\loch\fs24\lang2057 {\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 [T]oday it is possible to identify in bio-mechanical-genetic art works, an auto-generative component that is inherent in the work of art; it allows the defining of such a work as an auto-regenerative/auto-functioning art system. At the foundation of such a
rt is the idea that the programmer of the art work is the art work itself.(13)}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\sa120\ql\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\afs24\langfe255\loch\fs24\lang2057 {\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 After the automisation of production and the revolution in the field of transmission, we found ourselves on the threshold of the automatisation of seeing the world. (15)}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\sa120\ql\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\afs24\langfe255\loch\fs24\lang1033 
\par \pard\plain \sb240\sa120\keepn\f3\fs28\lang1033\i\b\f5\fs28\i\b\f6\fs28\i\b \ltrpar\s8\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af1\afs28\lang255\ai\ab\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs28\langfe255\ai\ab\loch\f1\fs28\lang2057\i\b {\loch\f3\fs28\lang1033\i\b Massumi, Brian, 'The Evolutionary Alchemy of Reason'}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\sa120\ql\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\afs24\langfe255\loch\fs24\lang2057 {\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 Stelarc applies instrumental reason \endash  careful, calculated, medically-assisted procedure-to the body, taken as an object, in order to extend intelligence into space, by means of suspension. (25)}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\sa120\ql\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\afs24\langfe255\loch\fs24\lang2057 {\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 [C]an a particular performance target a generality? (25)}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\sa120\ql\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\afs24\langfe255\loch\fs24\lang2057 {\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 The answer to the question of what is being suspended: embodied human possibility. Each suspension in the series was not a possible answer, but a re-posing of a problem that stubbornly remains a problem from end to end of its serial unfolding. (26)}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\sa120\ql\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\afs24\langfe255\loch\fs24\lang2057 {\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 Stelarc's project is to use particular bodily conjunctions to counteract generality in order to pack the body's singularity into sensation. That singularity is experience falling out of the particular moment, but not into a generality (27)}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\sa120\ql\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\afs24\langfe255\loch\fs24\lang2057 {\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 How can extensive movements turn intensive, and contribute to a transformation of the very nature of the body (as opposed simply to adding permutations on its actions as the object it already is, with the organs it already has)? (30)}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\sa120\ql\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\afs24\langfe255\loch\fs24\lang2057 {\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 Then in a very real sense the body is always already obsolete, has been obsolete an infinity of times and will be obsolete countless more \endash  as many times as there are adaptations and inventions (31)}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\sa120\ql\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\afs24\langfe255\loch\fs24\lang2057 {\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 Call a form of thought that is materially self-referential as opposed to reflective; that absorbs possibility without thinking it out into a combinatoric; that infolds without extending ... - call that kind of thought operative reason, as opposed to instru
mental reason. (32)}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\sa120\ql\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\afs24\langfe255\loch\fs24\lang1033{\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0\lang2057 Instrumental reason is and remains highly relevant. How relevant reflective thought remains is not so certain. It is this uncertainty in particular that problematizes agency. (39)}
\par \pard\plain \sb240\sa120\keepn\f3\fs28\lang1033\i\b\f5\fs28\i\b\f6\fs28\i\b \ltrpar\s8\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af1\afs28\lang255\ai\ab\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs28\langfe255\ai\ab\loch\f1\fs28\lang2057\i\b {\loch\f3\fs28\lang1033\i\b Murray, Timothy 'Coda of the Paradox of  Shed Skin: Stelarc ET the Philosophical Ping'}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\sa120\ql\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\afs24\langfe255\loch\fs24\lang2057 {\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 [H]ow and why do representations and metaphors of the body (not of the cyborg, but of the {\i body)} remain so central to even his experiments with the most virtual of digital interfaces? How is that the surface of the redesigned body itself carries the energet
ics of the distraught affect of trauma? (49)}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\sa120\ql\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\afs24\langfe255\loch\fs24\lang2057 {\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 I am inclined to believe that they provide helpful material and mechanistic models that help relay, through the means of digitized phantasms and computer simulations, earlier paradigms imagined by the likes of Merleau-Ponty and even Heidegger before him (4
9)}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\sa120\ql\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\afs24\langfe255\loch\fs24\lang2057 {\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 It is Stelarc's deep technical and performative engagement with the morphing of touch that has led to his most philosophically important interventions on the techno-ecosystem of the digital age. (51)}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\sa120\ql\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\afs24\langfe255\loch\fs24\lang2057 {\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 As if wired into the philosophical mainframe of Deleuze, Stelarc substitutes the metaphysical code of centralized subjectivity and the performing body, \ldblquote EST,\rdblquote  with the sequential stuff of data accumulation and the code a stripped down relationality, \ldblquote ET\rdblquote : 
(53)}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\sa120\ql\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\afs24\langfe255\loch\fs24\lang1033{\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0\lang2057 While perhaps exceedingly utopian, Stelarc's texts and performances are deeply wired within the philosophical. Their code resonates with the paradox of shed skin: Stelarc ET the Philosophical Ping (53)}
\par \pard\plain \sb240\sa120\keepn\f3\fs28\lang1033\i\b\f5\fs28\i\b\f6\fs28\i\b \ltrpar\s8\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af1\afs28\lang255\ai\ab\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs28\langfe255\ai\ab\loch\f1\fs28\lang2057\i\b {\loch\f3\fs28\lang1033\i\b Stelarc}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\sa120\ql\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\afs24\langfe255\loch\fs24\lang2057 {\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 As a surface, skin was the beginning of the world and simultaneously the boundary of the self. But now stretched, pierced and penetrated by technology, the skin is no longer the smooth and sensuous surface of a site or a screen. Skin no longer signifies cl
osure. (57)}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\sa120\ql\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\afs24\langfe255\loch\fs24\lang2057 {\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 This would be a more complex and interesting body-not simply a single entity with one agency but one that would be a host for a multiplicity of remote and alien agents. Of different physiology and in varying locations.58}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\sa120\ql\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\afs24\langfe255\loch\fs24\lang2057 {\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 But in the terrain of cyber complexity that we now inhabit the inadequacy and the obsolescence of the ego-agent driven biological body cannot be more apparent. 59}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\sa120\ql\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\afs24\langfe255\loch\fs24\lang2057 {\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 It is a more intuitive and interactive system that does not function through intelligence but rather because of its architecture. It is a more compliant and flexible mechanism. (60)}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\sa120\ql\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\afs24\langfe255\loch\fs24\lang2057 {\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 Notions of intelligence, awareness, identity, agency and embodiment become problematic (61)}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\sa120\ql\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\afs24\langfe255\loch\fs24\lang2057 {\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 A problem would arise though when the Prosthetic head increases it's data-base, becoming more autonomous in it's responses. I would then no longer be able to take full responsibility for what my head says (61)}
\par }