Stengers, Isabelle, Power and Invention,  tr Bains, Paul, University of Minnesota Press, 1997
Can we attribute a general applicability to the theme of complexity without authorizing generalizing pretentions? Can we use what present themselves today as “complex objects” to underline the general problems they raise, rather than the particular models of solution they determine? (5)
What is noteworthy about “relevance” is that it designates a relational problem. One speaks of a relevant question when it stops thought turning in circles and concentrates the attention on the singularity of an object or situation. (6)
The question then arises as to what is meant by “understanding”  system of this kind. (8)
Thus “strange attractors” are not a model, but rather a question mark, or an alarm bell. They signal that the difficulty of an operation of passage may not be due to a lack of knowledge, an incomplete formulation of the problem, or the enormous complication of the phenomenon, but may reside in intrinsic reasons that no foreseeable progress could gainsay. (8-9)
The vision of a complex world per se cannot be substituted for another scientific vision of the world; it is the notion of a vision of the world, from the point of view of which a general and unifying discourse can be held, that in one way or another must be called into question. (5)
Can we use what present themselves today as “complex objects” to underline the gneral problems they raise, rather than the particular models of solution they determine? (5)
What is noteworthy about “relevance” is that it designates a relational problem. One speaks of relevant question when it stops thought turning in circles and concentrates the attention on the singularity of an object or situation. (6)
Relevance designates, on the contrary, a subject that is neither absent nor all-powerful (6)
What is the relevant question? (6)
Her answer: 'it is quite possible for the analytical method to directly contradict the generalization of reductionism' (7)
One speaks of complexity with respect to “strange”, “chaotic” or “fractal” attractors. An attractor is a stationary state or regime toward which an evolution described by a well-determined system of equations leads (7).
The question then arises as to what is meant by “understanding” a system of this kind (8)
The decomposition of the phenomenon into simpler phenomena does not necessarily generate relevant questions. (8)
The cartography of knowledges and problems loses its “tree” shape, rising fomr a relatively simple but fundamental “law” (or “laws”) to its application in increasingly complicated situations (9)
Thus “strange attractors” are not a model, but rather a question mark, or an alarm bell. They signal that the difficulty of an operation of passage may not be due to a lack of knowledge, an incomplete formulation of the problem or the enormous complication of the phenomenon, but may reside instead in intrinsic reasons that no foreseeable progress could gainsay. (9)
In other words, it is the collective regime of activity that decides what is insignificant noise and what must be taken into account (9)
“Complex objects”, dissipative structures, catastrophic objects and strange attractors have raised the hope of “better modelizations” for such cases. But any local success that may come of such models would only signify the identification of simple aspects of these historical objects. Here again, complexity is not a theory, an exportable general model. 
One cannot speak of a “discovery of complexity” with respect to historical objects. (13)
The eventual limits of the relevance of descriptions made in terms of genetic determinations, or, more generally, made using laboratory methods of isolation, are not in the first instance tied to ideological or humanist choices, nor to the problem of the complications of the living object. They are intrinsic and irreducible because they involve the intrinsic temporality of the object studied.
The intrinsic complexity of living systems – the fact that they are the product of multiple histories in relation to which all constraints (genetic, experimental, or otherwise) take on meaning – does not impose a dramatic limit on any possibility of experimentation. What it imposes is the necessity for an intelligent experimentation, which assumes the risks responsibility of asking relevant questions. Every question is a wager concerning what the interrogated object is sensitive to, and no method is neutral with respect to this problem. The problem of relevance does not lead to irrationalism, but to the ever-present risk of “silencing” the very thing one is interrogating (17)

