{\rtf1\ansi\deff1\adeflang1025
{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fprq2\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fnil\fprq0\fcharset0 Trebuchet MS;}{\f2\fnil\fprq0\fcharset0 Trebuchet MS;}{\f3\fnil\fprq2\fcharset0 Tahoma;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;}
{\stylesheet{\s1\rtlch\af3\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af3\afs24\langfe255\loch\fs24\lang1033\snext1 Default;}
{\s2\sa120\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\sbasedon1\snext2 Text body;}
{\s3\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\fs24\lang2057\sbasedon2\snext3 List;}
{\s4\sb120\sa120\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af1\afs20\lang255\ai\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs20\langfe255\ai\loch\fs20\lang2057\i\sbasedon1\snext4 Caption;}
{\s5\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\fs24\lang2057\sbasedon1\snext5 Index;}
}
{\info{\creatim\yr2003\mo12\dy19\hr10\min11}{\revtim\yr1601\mo1\dy1\hr0\min0}{\printim\yr1601\mo1\dy1\hr0\min0}{\comment StarWriter}{\vern6450}}\deftab709
{\*\pgdsctbl
{\pgdsc0\pgdscuse195\pgwsxn11905\pghsxn16837\marglsxn1134\margrsxn1134\margtsxn1134\margbsxn1134\pgdscnxt0 Default;}}
{\*\pgdscno0}\paperh16837\paperw11905\margl1134\margr1134\margt1134\margb1134\sectd\sbknone\pgwsxn11905\pghsxn16837\marglsxn1134\margrsxn1134\margtsxn1134\margbsxn1134\ftnbj\ftnstart1\ftnrstcont\ftnnar\aenddoc\aftnrstcont\aftnstart1\aftnnrlc
\pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057 {\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033\i0\b0 Stengers, Isabelle, {\i Power and Invention, } tr Bains, Paul, University of Minnesota Press, 1997}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057 {\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033\i0\b0 Can we attribute a general applicability to the theme of complexity without authorizing generalizing pretentions? Can we use what present themselves today as \ldblquote complex objects\rdblquote  to underline the general problems they raise, rather than the particular models 
of solution they determine? (5)}
\par {\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033\i0\b0 What is noteworthy about \ldblquote relevance\rdblquote  is that it designates a relational problem. One speaks of a relevant question when it stops thought turning in circles and concentrates the attention on the singularity of an object or situation. (6)}
\par {\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033\i0\b0 The question then arises as to what is meant by \ldblquote understanding\rdblquote   system of this kind. (8)}
\par {\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033\i0\b0 Thus \ldblquote strange attractors\rdblquote  are not a model, but rather a question mark, or an alarm bell. They signal that the difficulty of an operation of passage may not be due to a lack of knowledge, an incomplete formulation of the problem, or the enormous complicatio
n of the phenomenon, but may reside in intrinsic reasons that no foreseeable progress could gainsay. (8-9)}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\ql\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057 {\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033\i0\b0 The vision of a complex world per se cannot be substituted for another scientific vision of the world; it is the notion of a vision of the world, from the point of view of which a general and unifying discourse can be held, that in one way or another must 
be called into question. (5)}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\ql\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057 {\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033\i0\b0 Can we use what present themselves today as \ldblquote complex objects\rdblquote  to underline the gneral problems they raise, rather than the particular models of solution they determine? (5)}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\ql\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057 {\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033\i0\b0 What is noteworthy about \ldblquote relevance\rdblquote  is that it designates a relational problem. One speaks of relevant question when it stops thought turning in circles and concentrates the attention on the singularity of an object or situation. (6)}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\ql\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057 {\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033\i0\b0 Relevance designates, on the contrary, a subject that is neither absent nor all-powerful (6)}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\ql\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057 {\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033\i0\b0 What is the relevant question? (6)}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\ql\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057 {\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033\i0\b0 Her answer: 'it is quite possible for the analytical method to directly contradict the generalization of reductionism' (7)}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\ql\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057 {\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033\i0\b0 One speaks of complexity with respect to \ldblquote strange\rdblquote , \ldblquote chaotic\rdblquote  or \ldblquote fractal\rdblquote  attractors. An attractor is a stationary state or regime toward which an evolution described by a well-determined system of equations leads (7).}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\ql\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057 {\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033\i0\b0 The question then arises as to what is meant by \ldblquote understanding\rdblquote  a system of this kind (8)}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\ql\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057 {\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033\i0\b0 The decomposition of the phenomenon into simpler phenomena does not necessarily generate {\i relevant} questions. (8)}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\ql\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057 {\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033\i0\b0 The cartography of knowledges and problems loses its \ldblquote tree\rdblquote  shape, rising fomr a relatively simple but fundamental \ldblquote law\rdblquote  (or \ldblquote laws\rdblquote ) to its application in increasingly complicated situations (9)}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\ql\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057 {\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033\i0\b0 Thus \ldblquote strange attractors\rdblquote  are not a model, but rather a question mark, or an alarm bell. They signal that the difficulty of an operation of passage may not be due to a lack of knowledge, an incomplete formulation of the problem or the enormous complication
 of the phenomenon, but may reside instead in intrinsic reasons that no foreseeable progress could gainsay. (9)}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\ql\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057 {\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033\i0\b0 In other words, it is {\i the collective regime of activity} that decides what is insignificant noise and what must be taken into account (9)}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\ql\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057 {\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033\i0\b0 \ldblquote Complex objects\rdblquote , dissipative structures, catastrophic objects and strange attractors have raised the hope of \ldblquote better modelizations\rdblquote  for such cases. But any local success that may come of such models would only signify the identification of {\i simple} aspects
 of these historical objects. Here again, complexity is not a theory, an exportable general model. }
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\ql\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057 {\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033\i0\b0 One cannot speak of a \ldblquote discovery of complexity\rdblquote  with respect to historical objects. (13)}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\ql\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057 {\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033\i0\b0 The eventual limits of the relevance of descriptions made in terms of genetic determinations, or, more generally, made using laboratory methods of isolation, are not in the first instance tied to ideological or humanist choices, nor to the problem of the c
omplications of the living object. They are intrinsic and irreducible because they involve the intrinsic temporality of the object studied.}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\ql\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057 {\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033\i0\b0 The intrinsic complexity of living systems \endash  the fact that they are the product of multiple histories in relation to which all constraints (genetic, experimental, or otherwise) take on meaning \endash  does not impose a dramatic limit on any possibility of experi
mentation. What it imposes is the necessity for an intelligent experimentation, which assumes the risks responsibility of asking relevant questions. Every question is a wager concerning what the interrogated object is sensitive to, and no method is neutral
 with respect to this problem. The problem of relevance does not lead to irrationalism, but to the ever-present risk of \ldblquote silencing\rdblquote  the very thing one is interrogating (17)}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s2\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057 
\par }