{\rtf1\ansi\deff0\adeflang1025
{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fprq2\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}{\f1\froman\fprq2\fcharset2 Symbol;}{\f2\fswiss\fprq2\fcharset0 Arial;}{\f3\froman\fprq2\fcharset128 Liberation Serif{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f4\fswiss\fprq2\fcharset0 Trebuchet MS;}{\f5\fswiss\fprq0\fcharset0 Trebuchet MS;}{\f6\fnil\fprq2\fcharset0 HG Mincho Light J{\*\falt msmincho};}{\f7\fnil\fprq0\fcharset128 Lohit Hindi;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;}
{\stylesheet{\s0\snext0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\aspalpha\nowidctlpar\cf1\hich\af6\langfe255\dbch\af0\afs24\kerning1\lang1081\loch\f0\fs24\lang255 Normal;}
{\*\cs15\snext15\cf1\hich\af6\langfe255\dbch\af0\afs24\loch\f0\fs24\lang255 Numbering Symbols;}
{\s16\sbasedon0\snext17{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sb240\sa120\keepn\cf0\hich\af0\langfe255\dbch\af2\afs28\loch\f2\fs28\lang1033 Heading;}
{\s17\sbasedon0\snext17\sl360\slmult1{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sb227\sa119\cf0\hich\af0\langfe255\dbch\af4\afs21\loch\f4\fs21\lang1033 Text body;}
{\s18\sbasedon17\snext18\sl200\slmult0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sb0\sa0\cf0\hich\af0\langfe255\dbch\af5\afs24\loch\f5\fs24\lang2057 List;}
{\s19\sbasedon0\snext19{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\aspalpha\sb120\sa120\noline\cf1\i\hich\af6\langfe255\dbch\af7\afs24\ai\loch\f0\fs24\lang255 Caption;}
{\s20\sbasedon0\snext20{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\hich\af0\langfe255\dbch\af5\afs24\loch\f5\fs24\lang1033 Index;}
{\s21\sbasedon0\snext21{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\aspalpha\sb120\sa120\cf1\i\hich\af6\langfe255\dbch\af0\afs24\ai\loch\f0\fs24\lang255 caption;}
{\s22\sbasedon0\snext22{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sb120\sa120\cf0\i\hich\af0\langfe255\dbch\af0\afs20\ai\loch\f0\fs20\lang1033 WW-caption;}
{\s23\sbasedon16\snext17\ilvl0\outlinelevel0\qc{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sb0\sa0\cf0\b\hich\af0\langfe255\dbch\af4\afs32\ab\loch\f4\fs32\lang2057 heading 1;}
{\s24\sbasedon0\snext24\tqc\tx4818\tqr\tx9637{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\hich\af0\langfe255\dbch\af0\afs24\loch\f0\fs24\lang1033 header;}
{\s25\sbasedon0\snext25\tqc\tx4818\tqr\tx9637{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\hich\af0\langfe255\dbch\af0\afs24\loch\f0\fs24\lang1033 footer;}
{\s26\sbasedon22\snext26\sl360\slmult1{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sb346\sa119\cf0\i0\hich\af0\langfe255\dbch\af4\afs21\ai0\loch\f4\fs21\lang2057 Text;}
{\s27\sbasedon17\snext27\sl200\slmult0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\li283\ri0\lin283\rin0\fi0\sb0\sa170\cf0\hich\af0\langfe255\dbch\af0\afs24\loch\f0\fs24\lang2057 Text body indent;}
{\s28\sbasedon0\snext28\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\aspalpha\cf1\hich\af6\langfe255\dbch\af0\afs24\loch\f0\fs24\lang255 WW-header;}
{\s29\sbasedon0\snext29\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\aspalpha\cf1\hich\af6\langfe255\dbch\af0\afs24\loch\f0\fs24\lang255 WW-footer;}
{\s30\sbasedon0\snext30\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\aspalpha\noline\cf1\hich\af6\langfe255\dbch\af0\afs24\loch\f0\fs24\lang255 Header;}
{\s31\sbasedon0\snext31\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\aspalpha\noline\cf1\hich\af6\langfe255\dbch\af0\afs24\loch\f0\fs24\lang255 Footer;}
}{\info{\creatim\yr2008\mo1\dy25\hr17\min40}{\revtim\yr1601\mo1\dy1\hr0\min0}{\printim\yr1601\mo1\dy1\hr0\min0}{\comment LibreOffice}{\vern3300}}\deftab1250\deftab1250\deftab1250\deftab1250\deftab1250\deftab1250\deftab1250\deftab1250\deftab1250\deftab1250\deftab1250

{\*\pgdsctbl
{\pgdsc0\pgdscuse195\pgwsxn11905\pghsxn16837\marglsxn1134\margrsxn1134\margtsxn1614\headery1134\margbsxn1614\footery1134{\header\pard\plain \s0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\aspalpha\nowidctlpar\cf1\hich\af6\langfe255\dbch\af0\afs24\kerning1\lang1081\loch\f0\fs24\lang255\tqc\tx4818\tqr\tx9637{\rtlch \ltrch
{\field{\*\fldinst  PAGE \\*alphabetic }{\fldrslt b}}}
\par }{\footer\pard\plain \s0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\aspalpha\nowidctlpar\cf1\hich\af6\langfe255\dbch\af0\afs24\kerning1\lang1081\loch\f0\fs24\lang255\tqc\tx4818\tqr\tx9637{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
}
\par }\pgdscnxt0 Standard;}}
\formshade{\*\pgdscno0}\paperh16837\paperw11905\margl1134\margr1134\margt1134\margb1134\sectd\sbknone\sectunlocked1\pgndec\pgwsxn11905\pghsxn16837\marglsxn1134\margrsxn1134\margtsxn1614\headery1134\margbsxn1614\footery1134{\header\pard\plain \s0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\aspalpha\nowidctlpar\cf1\hich\af6\langfe255\dbch\af0\afs24\kerning1\lang1081\loch\f0\fs24\lang255\tqc\tx4818\tqr\tx9637{\rtlch \ltrch
{\field{\*\fldinst  PAGE \\*alphabetic }{\fldrslt b}}}
\par }{\footer\pard\plain \s0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\aspalpha\nowidctlpar\cf1\hich\af6\langfe255\dbch\af0\afs24\kerning1\lang1081\loch\f0\fs24\lang255\tqc\tx4818\tqr\tx9637{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
}
\par }\ftnbj\ftnstart1\ftnrstcont\ftnnar\aenddoc\aftnrstcont\aftnstart1\aftnnrlc
\pgndec\pard\plain \s17\sl360\slmult1{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sb227\sa119\cf0\hich\af0\langfe255\dbch\af4\afs21\loch\f4\fs21\lang1033\sb227\sa119\ltrpar{\i0\b0\rtlch \ltrch\loch\fs21\lang1033
\{Stengers, 2000 #232\}}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sl360\slmult1{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sb227\sa119\cf0\hich\af0\langfe255\dbch\af4\afs21\loch\f4\fs21\lang1033\ltrpar{\rtlch \ltrch
 }{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
'my interpretation of the sciences ... would have to respond to the \'93Leibnizian constraint\'94 according to which philosophy should not have as its ideal the \'93reversal of established sentiments\'94'(15)}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sl360\slmult1{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sb227\sa119\cf0\hich\af0\langfe255\dbch\af4\afs21\loch\f4\fs21\lang1033\ltrpar{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Stengers, Isabelle, }{\i\ai\rtlch \ltrch\loch
The Invention of Modern Science, }{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
tr Smith, Daniel, University of Minnesota Press, 2000}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sl360\slmult1{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sb227\sa119\cf0\hich\af0\langfe255\dbch\af4\afs21\loch\f4\fs21\lang1033\ltrpar{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
'refusing to reduce a situation to what the passing of time gives us power to say about it today' (42)}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sl360\slmult1{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sb227\sa119\cf0\hich\af0\langfe255\dbch\af4\afs21\loch\f4\fs21\lang1033\ltrpar{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
A situation \'96 to the degree that is arouses actors who refer explicitly to the constraints it brought into existence-is not reducible to its milieu of emergence, any more than the way of relating to the world that invents a new species is reducible to the constraints that, we know a priori, must be satisfied: reproducing, finding eneough food, having a sporting chance to escape from predators, and so on. This does not mean, of course, that the invention or the situation can be separated from the milieu in which it is produced. (48)}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sl360\slmult1{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sb227\sa119\cf0\hich\af0\langfe255\dbch\af4\afs21\loch\f4\fs21\lang1033\ltrpar{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
I want to show that the singularity of the sciences does not need to denied in order to become discussable. In order to make scientists actors like any others in the life of the city (the \'93political\'94 preoccupation), it is not necessary to describe their practice as \'93similar\'94 to all other practices (the \'93sociological\'94 preoccupation). 58}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sl360\slmult1{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sb227\sa119\cf0\hich\af0\langfe255\dbch\af4\afs21\loch\f4\fs21\lang1033\ltrpar{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
[T]he Greek city is less the admirable site where \'93our\'94 democratic ideal was invented than the site where the various means through which a human society }{\i\ai\rtlch \ltrch\loch
constitutes }{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
itself were put into words and problematized. Through what type of order, through what \'93arrangement\'94 among those who are recognized as actors ... will political power constitute itself? To this desacralization, which deprives power of the power to justify itself, there corresponds the Aristotlian definition of man as the \'93political animal\'94. (61)}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sl360\slmult1{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sb227\sa119\cf0\hich\af0\langfe255\dbch\af4\afs21\loch\f4\fs21\lang1033\ltrpar{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
We are referring to the Greeks for the definition of reason we are putting to work, we who have invented the sciences, whereas all other human societies let themselves be defined by their tradition. We are referring to human traditions for the definition of \'93culture\'94, we \'93humans\'94 who are beings of culture, whereas all other \'93animal societies\'94 let themselves be defined by the specific codes to which they are subjected. In fact, from the modern perspective, the two questions are one. (62)}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sl360\slmult1{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sb227\sa119\cf0\hich\af0\langfe255\dbch\af4\afs21\loch\f4\fs21\lang1033\ltrpar{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Just as human politics is not reducible to the politics of baboons, the \'93politics of reason\'94 I am trying to characterize is not reducible to the games of power we today associate with \'93power politics.\'94 (64)}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sl360\slmult1{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sb227\sa119\cf0\hich\af0\langfe255\dbch\af4\afs21\loch\f4\fs21\lang1033\ltrpar{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Designating a problematic landscape in no way authorizes one to reduce the solutions that are inscribed in it to a common trait (65).}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sl360\slmult1{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sb227\sa119\cf0\hich\af0\langfe255\dbch\af4\afs21\loch\f4\fs21\lang1033\ltrpar{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
This is why, moreover, the history of the sciences constitutes the test par excellence for historical practices. (65)}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sl360\slmult1{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sb227\sa119\cf0\hich\af0\langfe255\dbch\af4\afs21\loch\f4\fs21\lang1033\ltrpar{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
The decisive point here is no longer to deny the differences scientists claim for themselves, but to avoid any way of describing them which implies that scientists have a privileged knowledge of what this difference that singularizes them }{\i\ai\rtlch \ltrch\loch
signifies. }{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
(67)}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sl360\slmult1{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sb227\sa119\cf0\hich\af0\langfe255\dbch\af4\afs21\loch\f4\fs21\lang1033\ltrpar{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
The event is not identified with the significations that those who follow will create for it, and it does not even designate a priori those for whom it will make a difference. It has neither a privileged representative nor legimate scope. The scope of the event is  part of its effects, of the problem posed in the future it creates. Its measure is the object of multiple interpretations, but it can be measured by the very multiplicity of these interpretations. (67)}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sl360\slmult1{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sb227\sa119\cf0\hich\af0\langfe255\dbch\af4\afs21\loch\f4\fs21\lang1033\ltrpar{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
The idea of a contingent process excludes explanation, which would transform the description into a deduction. It also excludes arbitrariness, which would insist on the contingency only in order to affirm, in a monotonous manner, that nothing has taken place, that the constructed signification and engendered problems are all valid because they are all relative to their context. The contingent process invites us to \'93follow\'94 it, each effect being both a prolongation and a reinvention. 72}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sl360\slmult1{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sb227\sa119\cf0\hich\af0\langfe255\dbch\af4\afs21\loch\f4\fs21\lang1033\ltrpar{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Abstraction is not the product of an \'93abstract way of seeing things\'94. It has nothing psychological or methodological about it. It is relative to the invention of an experimental practice that distinguishes it from one fiction among others while \'93creating\'94 a fact that singularizes one class of phenomena among others. (86)}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sl360\slmult1{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sb227\sa119\cf0\hich\af0\langfe255\dbch\af4\afs21\loch\f4\fs21\lang1033\ltrpar{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
This is the very meaning of the event that constitutes the experimental invention: }{\i\ai\rtlch \ltrch\loch
the invention of the power to confer on things the power of conferring on the experimenter the power to speak in their name. }{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
(89)}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sl360\slmult1{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sb227\sa119\cf0\hich\af0\langfe255\dbch\af4\afs21\loch\f4\fs21\lang1033\ltrpar{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Interest derives from }{\i\ai\rtlch \ltrch\loch
inter-esse: }{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
to be situated between' (Stengers, 95)}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sl360\slmult1{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sb227\sa119\cf0\hich\af0\langfe255\dbch\af4\afs21\loch\f4\fs21\lang1033\ltrpar{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
The prophetic tone of the readers of technoscience, denouncing the reduction of nature to information processing, cannot conceive of the passion of a computer programmer, who, in order to invent the way a situation becomes \'93processable\'94 by a computer, must submit to a becoming that transforms him into a mediator, site of coinvention of the situation and language. (112)}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sl360\slmult1{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sb227\sa119\cf0\hich\af0\langfe255\dbch\af4\afs21\loch\f4\fs21\lang1033\ltrpar{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
There are many ways to recount the history of the sciences, and to ground the politics of the future on them. What I am proposing puts the emphasis on the event, the risk, the proliferation of practices. What rational medicine requires, for example, grounds on the past the promise of a }{\i\ai\rtlch \ltrch\loch
reducibility}{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
 of what, for the moment, poses an obstacle to it (like the placebo effect). (114)}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sl360\slmult1{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sb227\sa119\cf0\hich\af0\langfe255\dbch\af4\afs21\loch\f4\fs21\lang1033\ltrpar{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
The effects of invention are always the creation of unsuspected distinctions, the possibility of putting into variation what appears as a \'93given\'94. (115)}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sl360\slmult1{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sb227\sa119\cf0\hich\af0\langfe255\dbch\af4\afs21\loch\f4\fs21\lang1033\ltrpar{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Now, the rhetoric that takes hold of the event celebrates the power of reduction. (116)}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sl360\slmult1{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sb227\sa119\cf0\hich\af0\langfe255\dbch\af4\afs21\loch\f4\fs21\lang1033\ltrpar{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Mobilization means the making available of the landscape whose properties are denied or identified from the sole point of view of the obstacle they constitute in relation to the ideal of a homogeneous landscape of whose points would all have to be equally accessible. ... Mobilization means equally the coherence of the whole, an ideally instantaneous transmission between different parts and the central post, which has as its disposal a global image of the situation. ... Mobilization finally means discipline. It is necessary for the different parts to obey the received orders, to become parts of a real body, the responsibility for their activities falling on the single brain that commands them. (116)}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sl360\slmult1{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sb227\sa119\cf0\hich\af0\langfe255\dbch\af4\afs21\loch\f4\fs21\lang1033\ltrpar{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Error does not emerge just anywhere. In fact, it emerges at points where the negotiations stop, where speech is no longer addressed to actors, who refuse to be taken in any longer, but to those who discover that, because of that very fact, they are now defined as \'93incompetent\'94 - those of whom one speculates concerning their beliefs, desires, fears, and demands, but in the sense in which they are defined as \'93influencable,\'94 strategic materials and not protagonists of a strategy (125).}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sl360\slmult1{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sb227\sa119\cf0\hich\af0\langfe255\dbch\af4\afs21\loch\f4\fs21\lang1033\ltrpar{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
This singularity poses the political problem of its coexistence with other actors, for whom the terms of submission and availability have a completely different meaning, who do not address themselves to rival and interested authors but to a world conceived of as a field of maneuvering (127)}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sl360\slmult1{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sb227\sa119\cf0\hich\af0\langfe255\dbch\af4\afs21\loch\f4\fs21\lang1033\ltrpar{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Mobilized scientists will be happy and proud to see themselves called on as experts by a power that recognises them as the sole legimate representatives of a problem. (129)}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sl360\slmult1{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sb227\sa119\cf0\hich\af0\langfe255\dbch\af4\afs21\loch\f4\fs21\lang1033\ltrpar{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
If the historical problem posed by a contingent process is that of its contingent recommencement, with other givens, it is not contradictory to affirm the primordial character of the experimental event while contesting the hierarchy of the sciences grounded on the theoretico-experimental model. (132)}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sl360\slmult1{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sb227\sa119\cf0\hich\af0\langfe255\dbch\af4\afs21\loch\f4\fs21\lang1033\ltrpar{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
[T]his singularity is constantly being reinvented by the history of the modern sciences, with other givens, and also with other means and other modalities of engagement. (134)}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sl360\slmult1{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sb227\sa119\cf0\hich\af0\langfe255\dbch\af4\afs21\loch\f4\fs21\lang1033\ltrpar{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
It is not a question of renouncing the distinction between the \'93artifact\'94 and the \'93fact created so as to demonstrate,\'94 but of becoming interested in something else, in the artifact as such, which itself is also capable of making the difference between human fictions with regard to their possibilities of explaining. (138)}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sl360\slmult1{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sb227\sa119\cf0\hich\af0\langfe255\dbch\af4\afs21\loch\f4\fs21\lang1033\ltrpar{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Whereas the experimental apparatus instituted an engagement that could be placed under the sign of the \'93power to judge,\'94 that of the \'93Darwinian biologist\'94 is inscribed in a strategy of decentering and \'93demoralization\'94: the aim of the undertaking is to actively allow reality to put our fictions to the test, but it only receives the means to intervene and make the difference in an activity of the \'93demoralization\'94 of history. (142)}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sl360\slmult1{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sb227\sa119\cf0\hich\af0\langfe255\dbch\af4\afs21\loch\f4\fs21\lang1033\ltrpar{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Example of field sciences \'96 they can't put things in variation (144)}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sl360\slmult1{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sb227\sa119\cf0\hich\af0\langfe255\dbch\af4\afs21\loch\f4\fs21\lang1033\ltrpar{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Example of animals interpreting the apparatus that interrogates them.}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sl360\slmult1{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sb227\sa119\cf0\hich\af0\langfe255\dbch\af4\afs21\loch\f4\fs21\lang1033\ltrpar{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Knowing that we can no longer believe does not mean \'93ceasing to believe\'94 or ridding ourselves of our heritage-it was a misunderstanding or an error, neither seen or known-but rather learning to prolong that heritage differently. (152)}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sl360\slmult1{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sb227\sa119\cf0\hich\af0\langfe255\dbch\af4\afs21\loch\f4\fs21\lang1033\ltrpar{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
The question is thus one of knowing what \'93we can no longer believe\'94 can make us capable of: what sensibilities, what risks, what becomings can it engage us in? Can we confer a positive meaning to \'93what we can no longer believe\'94? Can we transform the shame of what our beliefs have permitted into a capacity to problematize and invent- that is, to resist? (152)}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sl360\slmult1{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sb227\sa119\cf0\hich\af0\langfe255\dbch\af4\afs21\loch\f4\fs21\lang1033\ltrpar{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Every scientific question, because it is a vector of becoming, involves a responsibility: \'93Who are you to be asking me this question?\'94 \'93Who am I to be asking you this question?\'94 These are the interrogations that the scientist, who knows the irreducible link between the production of knowledge and the production of existence, cannot escape. (148)}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sl360\slmult1{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sb227\sa119\cf0\hich\af0\langfe255\dbch\af4\afs21\loch\f4\fs21\lang1033\ltrpar{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
This is something that can wound our Western desire to do science, to create a theory that allows us to distinguish the rational from the irrational. However, what is also at stake here is the possibility of a practice that, while putting our fictions to the test, }{\i\ai\rtlch \ltrch\loch
as required by the singularity of the modern sciences, }{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
 creates a position of humour, in which Western culture, as it produces science, submits itslef to the most demanding test: the test that reinvents the West as one culture among others. (148)}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sl360\slmult1{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sb227\sa119\cf0\hich\af0\langfe255\dbch\af4\afs21\loch\f4\fs21\lang1033\ltrpar{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
I am not sure I have been able to write a book of philosophy, but in any case I have tried to work at an experimentation of concepts, which permits us to resist the present, and to appeal to a future in the mirror of which our present and our past \'93are strangely deformed.\'94 (151)}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sl360\slmult1{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sb227\sa119\cf0\hich\af0\langfe255\dbch\af4\afs21\loch\f4\fs21\lang1033\ltrpar{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
According to the thesis that runs through this book, we are under the influence of the invention of a different way of doing politics, one that integrates what the city separated: human affairs (}{\i\ai\rtlch \ltrch\loch
praxis)}{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
 and the management-production of things (}{\i\ai\rtlch \ltrch\loch
techn\'e9}{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
). The event, which we have inherited, is that of the invention of a new practice of measuring things by humans, centered on the difference between \'93fact\'94 and \'93fiction\'94, [it] has created \'93another way\'94 of doing politics (163)}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sl360\slmult1{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sb227\sa119\cf0\hich\af0\langfe255\dbch\af4\afs21\loch\f4\fs21\lang1033\ltrpar{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
The perspective I have tried to open up in this book is one in which we would have to become even more \'93different\'94, that is, one in which we would have to invent, in our own terms, an antidote to the belief that makes us so formidable, the belief that defines truth and fiction in terms of an opposition, in terms of the power that makes the first destroy the second, a belief older than the invention of the modern sciences, but whose invention constituted a \'93recommencement\'94. For me, this perspective corresponds to the double constraint of the event: it makes a difference between the past and the future, in relation to which every dream of a \'93backwards return\'94 is a vector of monstrosity; it does not have the power to dictate to its heir to take it into account (164-5)}
\par \pard\plain \s17\sl360\slmult1{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sb227\sa119\cf0\hich\af0\langfe255\dbch\af4\afs21\loch\f4\fs21\lang1033\sb227\sa119\ltrpar{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
}
\par }