{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f1\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0604020202020204}Arial;}
{\f33\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f34\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f36\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f37\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}
{\f38\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\f39\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\f40\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\f41\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Arial CE;}{\f42\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Arial Cyr;}
{\f44\fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Arial Greek;}{\f45\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Arial Tur;}{\f46\fswiss\fcharset177\fprq2 Arial (Hebrew);}{\f47\fswiss\fcharset178\fprq2 Arial (Arabic);}{\f48\fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Arial Baltic;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;
\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f1\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext15 Standard;}}{\info
{\title Technology-driven and Model-driven approaches to Group Decision Support: focus, research philosophy and key concepts}{\author adrian  mackenzie}{\operator adrian  mackenzie}{\creatim\yr2001\mo8\dy28\hr13\min31}{\revtim\yr2001\mo8\dy28\hr13\min32}
{\version3}{\edmins1}{\nofpages1}{\nofwords268}{\nofchars1529}{\nofcharsws0}{\vern8247}}\paperw11905\paperh16837\margl1134\margr1134\margt1134\margb1134 
\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\horzdoc\dghspace120\dgvspace120\dghorigin1701\dgvorigin1984\dghshow0\dgvshow3\jcompress\viewkind4\viewscale100\nolnhtadjtbl \fet0\sectd 
\sbknone\linex0\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}
{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\f1\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs20 \lquote Technology-driven and Model-driven approaches to Group Decision Support: focus, research philosophy and key concepts\rquote 
\par Alec Morton, Fran Ackermann and Valerie Belton
\par Research Paper No. 2001/1
\par 
\par Rather than focusing on computing systems, the Model-driven tradition focuses on the different sorts of }{\i\fs20 decision models}{\fs20  (again, hence the label)  which may underlie a GDS methodology. 8
\par 
\par Model-driven researchers are more concerned about the transmission of their skills and tacit knowledge to potential practitioners of the methods 9
\par 
\par While the Technology-driven tradition seeks to diffuse its meeting support product, the Model-driven tradition seeks to provide a problem consultation service. 9
\par 
\par The commonest way of splitting up the "input factors" in the Technology-driven literature is to divide them into group, technology, task and context characteristics. 13
\par 
\par There is no strong positive conceptualization of "context" which is generally used as a residual class, where variables are parked when they are felt to be important but have received little systematic study (e.g. culture). 13
\par 
\par The other big difference between Technolog]-driven and the Model-driven traditions, relates to the roles of
\par 
\par To summarise the discussion thus far: we have argued that the Technology-driven and Model-driven 
\par Traditions originate in different fields \endash  IS and OR \endash 
 and are responses to different needs. This explains what is for us a fundamental difference between the two traditions: the focus on the computing system, on the one hand, and on the decision mo
del on the other. This difference in focus in turn helps explain how the two fields see the measures of their success (and hence as their main challenges): while the Technology-driven tradition seeks to diffuse its meeting support product, the Model-drive
n tradition seeks to provide a problem consultation service. 9 
\par }}