Tanenbaum. Andrew, Operating Systems. Design and Implementation Prentice Hall  Inc. Englewood Cliffs, New Jersey  1987
Bell Labs licensed UNIX to universities almost for free, and within a few years hundreds of them were using it. It soon spread to the Interdata 7/32, VAX, Motorola 680001 and many other computers. UNIX has been moved ('ported') to more computers than any other operating system in history, and its use is still rapidly increasing. 11
When AT&T released Version 7, it began to realize that UNIX was a valuable commercial product. So it issued Version 7 with a license that prohibited the source code from being studied jn courses in order to avoid endangering its status as a trade secret. Many universities complied by simply dropping the study of UNIX and teaching only theory. 13
The other broad category of system calls relates to the file system. As noted before, a major function of the operating system is to hide the peculiarities of disks and other I/O devices, and present the programmer with a nice, clean abstract model of device-independent files. 16
FORK is the only way to create a new process. It creates an exact duplicate of the original process, including all the file descriptors, registers--everything. After the FORK the original process and the copy (the parent and child) go their separate ways. All the variables have identical values at the time of the FORK, but since the entire parent core image is copied to create the child, subsequent changes in one of them do not affect the other one. 23

