{\rtf1\ansi\deff1\adeflang1025
{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fprq2\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fswiss\fprq0\fcharset0 Trebuchet MS;}{\f2\fswiss\fprq2\fcharset0 Bitstream Vera Sans;}{\f3\fswiss\fprq0\fcharset0 Trebuchet MS;}{\f4\fswiss\fprq0\fcharset0 Arial;}{\f5\fnil\fprq2\fcharset0 Mincho{\*\falt msmincho};}{\f6\fnil\fprq0\fcharset0 Tahoma;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;}
{\stylesheet{\s1\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af2\langfe255\hich\fs24\lang2057\loch\fs24\lang2057\snext1 Normal;}
{\s2\sb240\sa120\keepn\rtlch\af4\afs28\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af5\langfe2052\hich\f4\fs28\lang2057\loch\f4\fs28\lang2057\sbasedon1\snext3 Heading;}
{\s3\sa120\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\langfe2052\hich\fs24\lang2057\loch\fs24\lang2057\sbasedon1\snext3 Body Text;}
{\s4\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\langfe2052\hich\fs24\lang2057\loch\fs24\lang2057\sbasedon3\snext4 List;}
{\s5\sb120\sa120\rtlch\af6\afs24\lang255\ai\ltrch\dbch\af2\langfe255\hich\fs24\lang2057\i\loch\fs24\lang2057\i\sbasedon1\snext5 caption;}
{\s6\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\langfe2052\hich\fs24\lang2057\loch\fs24\lang2057\sbasedon1\snext6 Index;}
{\s7\sb120\sa120\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ai\ltrch\dbch\af2\langfe255\hich\fs24\lang2057\i\loch\fs24\lang2057\i\sbasedon1\snext7 caption;}
{\s8\sb120\sa120\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ai\ltrch\dbch\af2\langfe255\hich\fs24\lang2057\i\loch\fs24\lang2057\i\sbasedon1\snext8 WW-caption;}
{\s9\sb120\sa120\rtlch\afs20\lang255\ai\ltrch\dbch\af1\langfe2052\hich\fs20\lang2057\i\loch\fs20\lang2057\i\sbasedon1\snext9 WW-caption1;}
}
{\info{\creatim\yr2008\mo8\dy7\hr15\min21}{\revtim\yr1601\mo1\dy1\hr0\min0}{\printim\yr1601\mo1\dy1\hr0\min0}{\comment StarWriter}{\vern3000}}\deftab709
{\*\pgdsctbl
{\pgdsc0\pgdscuse195\pgwsxn11905\pghsxn16837\marglsxn1134\margrsxn1134\margtsxn1134\margbsxn1134\pgdscnxt0 Standard;}}
{\*\pgdscno0}\paperh16837\paperw11905\margl1134\margr1134\margt1134\margb1134\sectd\sbknone\pgwsxn11905\pghsxn16837\marglsxn1134\margrsxn1134\margtsxn1134\margbsxn1134\ftnbj\ftnstart1\ftnrstcont\ftnnar\aenddoc\aftnrstcont\aftnstart1\aftnnrlc
\pard\plain \ltrpar\s3\sa120\ql\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\langfe2052\hich\fs24\lang2057\loch\fs24\lang2057 {\rtlch \ltrch\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 \{Terranova, 2004 #446\}}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s3\sa120\ql\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\langfe2052\hich\fs24\lang2057\loch\fs24\lang2057 {\rtlch \ltrch\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 Terranova, Tiziana. {\ul\ulc0 Network Culture. Politics for the Information Age}. London: Pluto Press, 2004.}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s3\chcbpat2\sa120\ql\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\langfe2052\hich\fs24\lang2057\loch\fs24\lang2057 {\rtlch \ltrch\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 The design of the Internet (and its technical protocols) prefigured the constitution of a neo-imperial electronic space, whose main feature is an openness which is also a constitutive tendency to {\rtlch\ltrch\dbch\hich\i\loch\i expansion. } 3}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s3\sa120\ql\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\langfe2052\hich\fs24\lang2057\loch\fs24\lang2057 {\rtlch \ltrch\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 It is increasingly difficult to think of cultural formations as distinct entities because of our awareness of the increasing {\rtlch\ltrch\dbch\hich\i\loch\i interconnectedness }of our communication systems. 2}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s3\sa120\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\langfe2052\hich\fs24\lang2057\loch\fs24\lang2057 {\rtlch \ltrch\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 [W]e can say that the whole plane of network culture is crisscrossed by social undercurrents that pose the problem of a global geopolitics not only at the level of technical infrastructure, but, more importantly, at the speed of cultural and informational 
flows. {\chcbpat2 A network culture can never be a unitary formation, describing a homogeneity of practices across a global communication matrix. On the contrary, if such a thing exists, it can only describe the dynamics informing the cultural and political process o
f recomposition and decomposition of a highly differentiated, multi-scaled and yet common global network culture. 72}}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s3\sa120\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\langfe2052\hich\fs24\lang2057\loch\fs24\lang2057 {\rtlch \ltrch\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 Rather than representing a moment of incorporation of a previously inauthentic moment, the open-source question demonstrates the overreliance of the digital economy as such on free labour, free both in the sense of 'not financially rewarded' and of 'willin
gly given'. (93-94)}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s3\sa120\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\langfe2052\hich\fs24\lang2057\loch\fs24\lang2057 {\rtlch \ltrch\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 The digital economy, then, challenged the postmodern assumption that labour disappears while the commodity takes on and dissolves all meaning. (90)}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s3\sa120\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\langfe2052\hich\fs24\lang2057\loch\fs24\lang2057 {\rtlch \ltrch\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 It is the labour of the designers and programmers that shows through a successful web site and it is the spectacle of that labour changing its product that keeps the users coming back. (90)}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s3\sa120\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\langfe2052\hich\fs24\lang2057\loch\fs24\lang2057 
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s3\sa120\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\langfe2052\hich\fs24\lang2057\loch\fs24\lang2057 {\rtlch \ltrch\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 Biological computing offers us an insight into a wider mode of soft control that takes as its focus the space-time of the swerve \'96 that between the moment when the model is constructed, through the positioning of constraints and a local determination of be
haviour, and the moment of emergence of useful or pleasing forms that are selected by exercising pressure or looked for through the elaboration of searching devices. 117-118}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s3\sa120\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\langfe2052\hich\fs24\lang2057\loch\fs24\lang2057 {\rtlch \ltrch\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 Biological computing suggests that the bounded organism contains both the pre-individual and the collective \'96 two levels of being that are infinitely more productive than the individual as such. 125}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s3\chcbpat2\sa120\ql\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\langfe2052\hich\fs24\lang2057\loch\fs24\lang2057 {\rtlch \ltrch\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 In a network culture, the differentiating power of image flows achieves a kind of hydrodynamic status characterized by a local sensitivity to global conditions.  .... The result seems to be a political field that cannot be made to unite under a single sign
ifier (...) or even under a stable consensus; while at the same time it cannot really split off into separate segments with completely socio-cultural identities (even hybrid ones) - a space that is {\rtlch\ltrch\dbch\hich\i\loch\i common} without being {\rtlch\ltrch\dbch\hich\i\loch\i homogeneous } or even {\rtlch\ltrch\dbch\hich\i\loch\i equal. }153-4}
\par }