{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fprq2 Times New Roman;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \fi0\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs20 Thrift, Movement-space, 2004}
\par\plain \f0\fs20
\par\plain {\f0\fs20 Thrift has the 5 developements \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0  mathematical deduction, population as thinkable,  gridding of time-space, list and files, logistics,  587.}
\par\plain \f0\fs20
\par\plain \f0\fs20
\par\plain {\f0\fs20 Most recently, the rise of continuously computed environments has made logistics perhaps the central discipline of the contemporary world \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0  though one curiously unsung \hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0  as it has pursued the goal of \hich\f0 \lquote \loch\f0 intelligent logistics processes\hich\f0 \rquote \loch\f0  which: \hich\f0 \lquote \loch\f0 have the ability to bring together the right information and materials, spatially and electronically, to the right place at the right time no matter where in the world they originate. In short, this new set of logistical processes requires a logistical environment that is time-based, collaborative and intelligent.\hich\f0 \rquote \loch\f0  (Greis 2004: 41)}
\par\plain \f0\fs20\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs20\b0\i0 In each of these five practices/apprehensions of number, number does not just describe, it constructs. Numbers take on virtual properties in that they produce an impetus towards the construction of \hich\f0 \lquote \loch\f0 a terrain and a population with precisely those standardized characteristics that will be easiest to monitor, count, assess and manage\hich\f0 \rquote \loch\f0  (Scott 1998: 81/2). In other words, number tends to cast the world reciprocally in its image as entities are increasingly made in forms that are countable. Number performs number. As importantly, in Euro-American cultures at least, it also performs a notion of a terrain and population existing in a \hich\f0 \lquote \loch\f0 similar and immovable\hich\f0 \rquote \loch\f0 5 abstract space which has had to be slowly and laboriously built up, one which assumes that there are fixed reference points, cardinal dimensions}
\par\plain {\f0\fs20\b0\i0 and the like (Hatfield 1990). \{Thrift, 2004, 589\}}
\par\plain \f0\fs20\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs20\b0\i0 Few accounts have tended to work out in any detail what the space-time signatures of a lifeworld that was heavily calculated (or, as I would have it, qualculated) would look like, even though it could be argued that this is the world that we are increasingly living in, 596}
\par\plain \f0\fs20\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs20\b0\i0 I am sure that I have overbalanced several times but it seems to me that it is}
\par\plain {\f0\fs20\b0\i0 only through instigating this kind of sometimes fevered projection and}
\par\plain {\f0\fs20\b0\i0 coupling it with an attention to the basic basics of everyday life that}
\par\plain {\f0\fs20\b0\i0 it is possible to obtain some measure of what is going on and what is}
\par\plain {\f0\fs20\b0\i0 falling away as new kinds of subjectivity are forced into existence by spaces}
\par\plain {\f0\fs20\b0\i0 and times that, through the power of what I have called qualculation,}
\par\plain {\f0\fs20\b0\i0 exceed and transform existing spaces and times as they apply a new set of arts}
\par\plain {\f0\fs20\b0\i0 of distribution, 601}}