{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f28\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0603020202020204}Trebuchet MS;}
{\f83\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f84\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f86\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f87\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}
{\f88\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\f89\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\f90\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\f307\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Trebuchet MS CE;}
{\f311\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Trebuchet MS Tur;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;
\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\ql \li0\ri0\sl360\slmult1
\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f28\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext15 Body Text;}}{\info
{\title To escape the narrow limits of social constructivism, it seems that the history of science requires more and more ontology-174}{\author adrian  mackenzie}{\operator adrian  mackenzie}{\creatim\yr2001\mo7\dy3\hr10\min1}
{\revtim\yr2001\mo7\dy9\hr17\min27}{\version6}{\edmins49}{\nofpages3}{\nofwords886}{\nofchars4432}{\nofcharsws0}{\vern8247}}\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\horzdoc\dghspace120\dgvspace120
\dghorigin1701\dgvorigin1984\dghshow0\dgvshow3\jcompress\viewkind4\viewscale100\nolnhtadjtbl \fet0\sectd \linex0\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}
{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain 
\s15\ql \li0\ri0\sl360\slmult1\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f28\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Trains of Thought: Piaget, Formalism and the Fifth Dimension
\par Bruno Latour }{\i Common Knowledge\'b8vol 6:3 }{ 1997, 170-191
\par 
\par 
\par To escape the narrow limits of social constructivism, it seems that the history of science requires more and more ontology. 174
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\sl360\slmult1\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\f28\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\langnp1033  Are they w
ell-aligned intermediaries making no fuss and no history and thus allowing a smooch passage, or full mediators defining paths and fates on their own terms? Are they really others-that is, mediators-or are they more of the same-that is, intermediaries? Tim
i
ng depends on that sort of ontological difference, not on the mind's apperception. If other entities are necessary for our existence (and surprise us), then times and spaces will proliferate. In the opposite case, times and spaces will rarefy to the point
 of becoming one time-space, or even, as we shall see, no time and no space, only forms.  175 
\par 
\par Thus we now have two dimensions to take into account in discussing space and time construction: one that defines the ratio of transformation over transportation 
and one that defines the relative visibility of the work to be done in order to obtain a displacement 176
\par In a world made of mediations, of transportation by deformation, there are a lots of times and places. Deeper than time is the question of the obedience and disobedience of humans or nonhumans.178 
\par 
\par Place is not a feature easier to understand than time. 178
\par 
\par We should not speak of time, space, and actant but rather of temporalization, spatialization, actantialization (the words are horrible) or, more elegantly, of timing, spacing, acting. 179
\par When, as in my narrative of the twins, a no-place becomes a master place, a chef-lieu, a topos, we should be able to say that it gains "spacificity' or "situatedness.\rquote  The same goes for the shift in actantiality. We
 should have a word that differentiates the move from one actant to another-extensive repetition-from the modification of all the actants-intensive repetition. Unfortunately, there is no such term. -T 179
\par 
\par What has occurred-an event or a non-event? Process is not in itself associated with time more than with space.179
\par I simply plan now to use the rich literature on the fabrication of time and space to free the fifth dimension of time from both its subjective and objective interpretations. How is she discuss
ion changed when the work necessary to construct scientific facts and technical artefacts is again becoming visible? The first thing to do is to elevate spacing to the same philosophical dignity as timing. 180
\par 
\par We now encounter the importance of techniques that I will define as a very peculiar way of folding times and actants of different qualities and tempos." 18I
\par 
\par The question is thus to decide potentialities, or whether time emerges from the eliciting, the educing, of virtualities, of surprising differences. 190
\par 
\par It might seem strange to define techniques as what connects interactions from different times, places, and actants, but it is necessary when we ascend to delegation and shifting. 182
\par We never encounter time and space, but rather a multiplicity of
 interactions with actants that have their own timing, spacing, goals, means, and ends. Nothing in the mind, nothing, but a lot in the know-how of those who, by clever technical action, can weave together types of actants that were immiscible a moment bef
ore. 182
\par 
\par As a philosopher of science interested in understanding why close attention to the practice of fabricating time and space in science and technology has not done more to renew the philosophy of time. 173
\par Subjective and objective time is only part o
f the story. The distinction concerns only train passengers. Wish the notion of objective or scientific time, two entirely different phenomena are lumped together: the routinized work of engineers inside huge institutions is taken as though equivalent to 
the feeling of the "user" who, because the engineers are watching day or night over his safe passage. 178 
\par 
\par Third, the notion of event cannot be differentiated into spatial and temporal components. If place counts as a no-place, it also counts as a non-event. Place is not a feature easier to understand than time. When a place counts as a }{
\i\f28\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\langnp1033 topos, }{\f28\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\langnp1033 it also counts as a }{\i\f28\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\langnp1033 kairos. }{\f28\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\langnp1033 
Deeper than time and space there is another question about who or what counts. Which actants can interrupt, modify, interest, or interfere with which others, thus producing as many }{\i\f28\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\langnp1033 topoi-kairoi}{
\f28\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\langnp1033 ? 178 
\par 
\par Fifth, and finally, the question of spacing, timing, and accing should always be combined with that of their intensity. What has occurred-an event or a non-event? Process is not in itself assoc
iated with time more than with space. Process is not the fourth dimension, but a fifth. 179
\par The question is thus to decide whether time is the realization of potentialities, or whether time emerges from the eliciting, the educing of virtualities, of surprising differences. 190
\par It is this quality of otherness and the "number" of orders that are, in this second philosophy, the crucial features; and its central problem is that of knowing if a transport, a displacement, a translation, a trajectory is "paid for"
 by a small or a large deformation, transformation, metamorphosis. 186
\par 
\par For someone who observes scientists or engineers at work, there is nor merely one time and space. The phenomena observed are much more surprising. They rely on the subversion, disjunct
ion, displacement, rescaling, crossing-over of relations between spatial, actorial, and temporal features. 184
\par }}