{\rtf1\ansi\deff1\adeflang1025
{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fprq2\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fnil\fprq0\fcharset0 Trebuchet MS;}{\f2\fnil\fprq0\fcharset0 Trebuchet MS;}{\f3\fswiss\fprq2\fcharset0 Trebuchet MS;}{\f4\fnil\fprq2\fcharset0 HG Mincho Light J;}{\f5\fnil\fprq0\fcharset0 Tahoma;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;}
{\stylesheet{\s1\cf0\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af4\afs24\langfe255\loch\fs24\lang255\snext1 Default;}
{\s2\sa120\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\sbasedon1\snext2 Text body;}
{\s3\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af5\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\sbasedon2\snext3 List;}
{\s4\sb120\sa120\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af5\afs20\lang255\ai\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs20\langfe255\ai\loch\f1\fs20\lang2057\i\sbasedon1\snext4 Caption;}
{\s5\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af5\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\sbasedon1\snext5 Index;}
}
{\info{\creatim\yr2004\mo2\dy17\hr11\min8}{\revtim\yr1601\mo1\dy1\hr0\min0}{\printim\yr1601\mo1\dy1\hr0\min0}{\comment StarWriter}{\vern6450}}\deftab1250
{\*\pgdsctbl
{\pgdsc0\pgdscuse195\pgwsxn11905\pghsxn16837\marglsxn1134\margrsxn1134\margtsxn1134\margbsxn1134\pgdscnxt0 Default;}}
{\*\pgdscno0}\paperh16837\paperw11905\margl1134\margr1134\margt1134\margb1134\sectd\sbknone\pgwsxn11905\pghsxn16837\marglsxn1134\margrsxn1134\margtsxn1134\margbsxn1134\ftnbj\ftnstart1\ftnrstcont\ftnnar\aenddoc\aftnrstcont\aftnstart1\aftnnrlc
\pard\plain \ltrpar\s1\cf0\sa120\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af4\afs24\langfe255\loch\fs24\lang255{\loch\f1\fs24\lang255\i0\b0\lang255 Ullman, Ellen, {\i Close to the Machine. Technophilia and its Discontents, }City Lights Books, San Francisco, 1997}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s1\cf0\sa120\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af4\afs24\langfe255\loch\fs24\lang255 {\loch\f1\fs24\lang255\i0\b0 I sat in my loft all day staring into my computer. I designed software. Now and then, I sent the designs to the programmers by e-mail. ... I had not anticipated this return to aloneness. Sitting in my sun-filled, 1600 square feet of architectural cool, I f
elt light-shocked, stunned ... My company and my life had devolved to their inevitable essence: me and my machines. }
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s1\cf0\sa120\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af4\afs24\langfe255\loch\fs24\lang255 {\loch\f1\fs24\lang255\i0\b0 For I have a virtual company. (Ullman, 1997, 125)}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s1\cf0\sa120\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af4\afs24\langfe255\loch\f3\fs24\lang255 {\loch\f3\fs24\lang255\i0\b0 I may be wrong, but I have this idea we programmers are the world's canaries. 146}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s1\cf0\sa120\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af4\afs24\langfe255\loch\f3\fs24\lang255 {\loch\f3\fs24\lang255\i0\b0 We have entered the code zone. Here thought is telegraphic and exquisitely precise. I feel no need to slow myself down. On the contrary, the faster the better. ...}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s1\cf0\sa120\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af4\afs24\langfe255\loch\f3\fs24\lang255 {\loch\f3\fs24\lang255\i0\b0 Procedure calls. Relational database normalization. Objects going in and out of scope. Though my mind is racing, I feel calm. It's the spacey calm of satellites speeding over the earht at a thousand miles per second: relative to each other, we float. The i
mages of patients with AIDS recede, the beleagured service providers are forgotten, the whole grim reality of the epidemic fased. We give ourselves over to the sheer technical fun of the technical, to the nearly sexual pleasure of the clicking thought-stre
am. }
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s1\cf0\sa120\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af4\afs24\langfe255\loch\f3\fs24\lang255 {\loch\f3\fs24\lang255\i0\b0 Some part of me mourns, but I know there is no other way: human needs must cross the line into code. They must pass through this semipermeable membrane where urgency, fear, and hope are filtered out, and only reason travels across. There is no other way. R
eading, death-inducing viruses do not travel here. Actual human confusions cannot live. Everything we want accomplished, everything the system is to provide, must be denatured in its crossing to the machine, or else the system will die (14-15).}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s1\cf0\sa120\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af4\afs24\langfe255\loch\f3\fs24\lang255 {\loch\f3\fs24\lang255\i0\b0 The project begins in the programmer's mind with the beauty of a crystal. I remember the feel of a system at the early stages of pgoramming, when the knowledge I am to represent in code seems lovely in its structuredness. For a time, the world is a calm, m
atehatmical place. Human and machine seem attuned to a cut-diamond-like state of grace. Once in my life I tried methamphetamine: that speed high is the only state that approximates the feel of a project as its inception. Yes, I understand. Yes, it can be d
one. Yes, how straightforward. Oh yes. I {\i see.}}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s1\cf0\sa120\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af4\afs24\langfe255\loch\f3\fs24\lang255 {\loch\f3\fs24\lang255\i0\b0 Then something happens. As the months of coding go on, the irregularities of human thinking start to emerge. You write some code, and suddenly there are dark, unspecified areas. All the pages of careful documents, and still, between the sentences, somethin
g is missing. (21)}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s1\cf0\sa120\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af4\afs24\langfe255\loch\f3\fs24\lang255 {\loch\f3\fs24\lang255\i0\b0 Soon the programmer has no choice but to retreat into some private interior space, closer to the machine, where things can be accomplished. The machine begins to seem friendlier than the analysts, the users, the managers. The real-world reflection of the p
rogram \endash  who cares anymore? Guide an X-ray machine or target a missile; print a budget or a dossier; run a city subway or a disk-drive read/write arm: it all begins to blur. The system has crossed the membrane-the great filter or logic, instruction by inst
ruction-where it has been cleansed of its linkages to actual human life (23-4)}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s1\cf0\sa120\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af4\afs24\langfe255\loch\f3\fs24\lang255 {\loch\f3\fs24\lang255\i0\b0 In fact, the failure will be built into the system in the normal course of things. A bug. Every system has a bug. The more complex the system, the more bugs. Transactions circling the earth, passing through the computer systems of tens or hundreds of corpo
rate entities, thousands of networks switches, millions of lines of code, trillions of integrated-circuit logic gates. Somewhere there is a fault. Sometime the fault will be activated. Now or next year, sooner or later, by design, by hack, or by onslaught 
of complexity. It doesn't matter. (Ullman, 1997, 32)}
\par }