{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f1\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0604020202020204}Arial;}
{\f28\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0603020202020204}Trebuchet MS;}{\f69\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f70\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f72\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}
{\f73\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\f74\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\f75\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\f76\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}
{\f77\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Arial CE;}{\f78\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Arial Cyr;}{\f80\fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Arial Greek;}{\f81\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Arial Tur;}{\f82\fswiss\fcharset177\fprq2 Arial (Hebrew);}
{\f83\fswiss\fcharset178\fprq2 Arial (Arabic);}{\f84\fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Arial Baltic;}{\f293\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Trebuchet MS CE;}{\f297\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Trebuchet MS Tur;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;
\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;
\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive 
Default Paragraph Font;}}{\info{\title What Is globalization}{\author adrian  mackenzie}{\operator adrian  mackenzie}{\creatim\yr2001\mo8\dy22\hr9\min48}{\revtim\yr2001\mo10\dy1\hr11\min21}{\version6}{\edmins22}{\nofpages1}{\nofwords210}{\nofchars1200}
{\nofcharsws0}{\vern8247}}\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\horzdoc\dghspace120\dgvspace120\dghorigin1701\dgvorigin1984\dghshow0\dgvshow3\jcompress\viewkind4\viewscale100\nolnhtadjtbl \fet0\sectd 
\linex0\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang
{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {
\i\f28\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\langnp1033 What is globalization?}{\f28\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\langnp1033  Ulrich Beck; translated by Patrick Camiller. First published in 2000 by Polity Press Cambridge
\par 
\par }{\f1\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\langnp1033 By globalism I mean the view that the world market eliminates or supplants political action - that is, the ideology of rule by the world market, the ideology of neoliberalism. 9
\par 
\par The striking thing is that globalism, understood in this way, casts its spell even over its opponents. Along with affirmative gl
obalism, there is also a 'negative' globalism which, having been convinced of the inescapable dominance of the world Market, takes refuge in various forms of protectionism.}{\f28\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\langnp1033 
\par 
\par Our own life is the locus of the glocal. How is this possible? One's
 own life is no longer tied to a particular place; it is not a staid, settled life. It is a life 'on the road' (in a direct and transferred sense), a nomadic life, a life in car, aeroplane and train, on the telephone and Internet, a transnational life med
ia-supported and media-stamped. 74
\par 
\par If we are to understand the social figure of a globalization of personal life, we must focus on the oppositions involved in stretching between different places. This requires, among other things, that mobility should be understood in a new way. 75
\par 
\par What is coming to the fore is the inner mobility of an individual's own life, for which coming and going, being both here and there across frontiers at the same time, has become the normal thing.  75
\par 
\par One could say it has become second nature to keep having to 'find one's place', between different places each with their special social demands. (Beck, 2000, 75)
\par 
\par The multiple location or transnationality of individual biographies, the globalization of people's lives, is a farther r
eason why national sovereignty is being undermined and a nationally based sociology is becoming obsolete. The association of place with community or society is breaking down. The changing and choosing of place is the model for biographical globalization. 
74
\par }}