{\rtf1\ansi\deff1\adeflang1025
{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fprq2\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fnil\fprq0\fcharset0 Trebuchet MS;}{\f2\fnil\fprq0\fcharset0 Trebuchet MS;}{\f3\fnil\fprq0\fcharset0 Arial;}{\f4\fnil\fprq2\fcharset0 Arial Unicode MS;}{\f5\fnil\fprq2\fcharset0 Tahoma;}{\f6\fnil\fprq0\fcharset0 Tahoma;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;}
{\stylesheet{\s1\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af5\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af4\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033\snext1 Default;}
{\s2\sa120\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af5\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af4\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033\sbasedon1\snext2 Text body;}
{\s3\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af6\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af4\afs24\langfe255\loch\fs24\lang1033\sbasedon2\snext3 List;}
{\s4\sb120\sa120\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af6\afs20\lang255\ai\ltrch\dbch\af4\afs20\langfe255\ai\loch\fs20\lang1033\i\sbasedon1\snext4 Caption;}
{\s5\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af6\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af4\afs24\langfe255\loch\fs24\lang1033\sbasedon1\snext5 Index;}
}
{\info{\creatim\yr2004\mo8\dy5\hr14\min45}{\revtim\yr2004\mo8\dy5\hr14\min45}{\printim\yr1601\mo1\dy1\hr0\min0}{\comment StarWriter}{\vern6450}}\deftab709
{\*\pgdsctbl
{\pgdsc0\pgdscuse195\pgwsxn11905\pghsxn16837\marglsxn1134\margrsxn1134\margtsxn1134\margbsxn1134\pgdscnxt0 Default;}}
\paperh16837\paperw11905\margl1134\margr1134\margt1134\margb1134\sectd\sbknone\pgwsxn11905\pghsxn16837\marglsxn1134\margrsxn1134\margtsxn1134\margbsxn1134\ftnbj\ftnstart1\ftnrstcont\ftnnar\aenddoc\aftnrstcont\aftnstart1\aftnnrlc
\pard\plain \ltrpar\s1\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af3\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af3\afs24\langfe255\loch\f3\fs24\lang1033 {\loch\f3\fs24\lang1033\i0\b0 Urry, John. 2003. {\i Global complexity}. Cambridge: Polity.}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s1\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af5\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af4\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033 {\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033\i0\b0 \{Urry, 2003 #322\}}
\par 
\par {\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033\i0\b0 The very division between the 'physical' and the 'social' is itself dissolving. The complexity sciences seem to provide the best means of transcending such outdated divisions, between nature {\i and }{\i0 society, between the physical sciences }{\i and }{\i0  the social scienc
es. 18{\*\bkmkstart DDE_LINK1}{\*\bkmkend DDE_LINK1}}}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s1\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af5\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af4\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033 
\par {\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033\i0\b0 We might being by noting that there is an emerging 'structure of feeling' that complexity both signifies and enhances ... Such an emergent structure involves a greater sense of contingent openness available to people, corporations and societies, of the div
ersity of geographies, of a charity towards objects and nature, of the diverse and variegated patterns of relationships, households, persons, and of the sheer increase in the hyper-complexity of products, technologies and socialities (29-30)}
\par 
\par {\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033\i0\b0 And yet this is paradoxical, since 'complexity' practices can themselves be conceptualized as a self-organizing global network. 30}
\par {\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033\i0\b0 37 questions about the effect of practices of investigation on the system observed}
\par {\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033\i0\b0 I have tried to show that 'complexity' provides a wide array of metaphors, concepts and theories essential for examining such intractable disoderliness. ... Complexity elaborates how there is order {\i and }disorder within all physical and social systems. (138)
}
\par {\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033\i0\b0 Such complexity derives from what I have described as the dialectic of moorings {\i and }mobilities. (138)}
\par 
\par {\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033\i0\b0{\i0 Complexity theories themselves seem irreducibly part of the emergent systems }}{\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033{\i of}{\i0  global complexity. (140)}}
\par }