{\rtf1\ansi\deff1\adeflang1025
{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fprq2\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fswiss\fprq0\fcharset0 Trebuchet MS;}{\f2\fnil\fprq2\fcharset0 AR PL ShanHeiSun Uni;}{\f3\fnil\fprq0\fcharset0 Helvetica;}{\f4\fswiss\fprq0\fcharset0 Trebuchet MS;}{\f5\fswiss\fprq2\fcharset0 Luxi Sans;}{\f6\fnil\fprq2\fcharset0 Tahoma;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;}
{\stylesheet{\s1\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af5\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af5\langfe255\hich\f1\fs24\lang1033\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033\snext1 Normal;}
{\s2\sb240\sa120\keepn\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af6\afs28\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af2\langfe255\hich\f3\fs28\lang1033\loch\f3\fs28\lang1033\sbasedon1\snext3 Heading;}
{\s3\sa120\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\langfe2052\hich\f1\fs24\lang2057\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\sbasedon1\snext3 Body Text;}
{\s4\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\langfe2052\hich\fs24\lang2057\loch\fs24\lang2057\sbasedon3\snext4 List;}
{\s5\sb120\sa120\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af1\afs20\lang255\ai\ltrch\dbch\af1\langfe2052\hich\fs20\lang2057\i\loch\fs20\lang2057\i\sbasedon1\snext5 caption;}
{\s6\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\langfe2052\hich\fs24\lang2057\loch\fs24\lang2057\sbasedon1\snext6 Index;}
{\s7\li283\ri0\lin283\rin0\fi0\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\langfe2052\hich\fs24\lang2057\loch\fs24\lang2057\sbasedon3\snext7 Body Text Indent;}
}
{\info{\creatim\yr0\mo0\dy0\hr0\min0}{\revtim\yr0\mo0\dy0\hr0\min0}{\printim\yr0\mo0\dy0\hr0\min0}{\comment StarWriter}{\vern6800}}\deftab709
{\*\pgdsctbl
{\pgdsc0\pgdscuse195\pgwsxn11905\pghsxn16837\marglsxn1134\margrsxn1134\margtsxn1134\margbsxn1134\pgdscnxt0 Standard;}}
{\*\pgdscno0}\paperh16837\paperw11905\margl1134\margr1134\margt1134\margb1134\sectd\sbknone\pgwsxn11905\pghsxn16837\marglsxn1134\margrsxn1134\margtsxn1134\margbsxn1134\ftnbj\ftnstart1\ftnrstcont\ftnnar\aenddoc\aftnrstcont\aftnstart1\aftnnrlc
\pard\plain \ltrpar\s3\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\ql\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\langfe2052\hich\fs24\lang1033\loch\fs24\lang1033 {\rtlch \ltrch\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033\i0\b0 \{Virno, 2004 #395\}}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s3\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\ql\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\langfe2052\hich\f1\fs24\lang1033\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033 {\rtlch \ltrch\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033\i0\b0 Virno, {\rtlch\ltrch\dbch\hich\i\loch\i A Grammar of the Multitude, }2004}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s3\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\ql\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\langfe2052\hich\f1\fs24\lang1033\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033 {\rtlch \ltrch\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033\i0\b0 This means that in order to get a sense of orientation in the world and to protect ourselves from its dangers, we can not rely on those forms of thought, of reasoning, or of discourse which have their niche in one particular context or another. ... Everywh
ere, and in every situation, we speak/think in the same way, on the basis of logical-linguistic constructs which are as fundamental as they are broadly general. 36}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s3\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\ql\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\langfe2052\hich\f1\fs24\lang1033\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033 {\rtlch \ltrch\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033\i0\b0 The cognitive-linguistic habits of the species do not come to the forefront because someone decides to make them come to the forefront; they do so out necessity, or because they constitute a form of protection in a society devoid of substantial communities
( or of \'93special places\'94). 42}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s3\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\ql\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\langfe2052\hich\f1\fs24\lang1033\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033 {\rtlch \ltrch\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033\i0\b0 Contemporary labor has introjected into itself many characteristics which originally marked the experience of politics. {\rtlch\ltrch\dbch\hich\i\loch\i Poiesis} has taken on numerous aspects of {\rtlch\ltrch\dbch\hich\i\loch\i praxis. 50}}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s3\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\ql\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\langfe2052\hich\f1\fs24\lang1033\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033 {\rtlch \ltrch\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033\i0\b0 However, in  a situation in which the means of production are not reducible to machines but consist of linguistic-cognitive competencies inseparable from living labor, it is legitimate to assume that a conspicuous part of the so-called \'93means of production
\'94 consists of techniques and communicative procedures. Now, where are these techniques and procedures created, if not in the culture industry? 1}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s3\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\ql\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\langfe2052\hich\f1\fs24\lang1033\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033 {\rtlch \ltrch\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033\i0\b0 When \'93subjective\'94 cooperation becomes the primary productive force, labor activities display a marked linguistic-communicative quality, they entail the presence of the others. The monological feature of labor dies away: the relationship with others is a dr
iving, basic element, not something accessory. Where labor move {\rtlch\ltrch\dbch\hich\i\loch\i to the side } of the immediate productive process, instead of being one of its components, productive cooperation is a \'93publicly organized space. This \'93publicly organized space\'94 - introjected i
nto the labor process \'96 mobilizes attitudes which are traditionally political. 63}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s3\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\ql\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\langfe2052\hich\f1\fs24\lang1033\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033 {\rtlch \ltrch\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033\i0\b0 The entire realm of productive forces is pre-individual. It is social cooperation in the form of action in concert, the totality of poietic, \'93political,\'94 cognitive, emotional forces. It is the {\rtlch\ltrch\dbch\hich\i\loch\i general intellect, } the general, objective, external intellect.
  78}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s3\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\ql\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\langfe2052\hich\f1\fs24\lang1033\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033 {\rtlch \ltrch\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033\i0\b0 [T]he collective experience, the life of the group, is not, as we usually believe, the sphere within which the salient traits of a singular individual diminish or disappear; on the contrary, it is the terrain of a new and more radical individuation. By par
ticipating in a collective, the subject, far from surrendering the most unique individual traits, has the opportunity to individuate, at least in part, the share of pre-individual reality which all individuals carry within themselves. ... Only within the c
ollective, certain not within the isolated subject, can perception, language and productive forces take on the shape of an individuated experience. 79}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s3\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\ql\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\langfe2052\hich\f1\fs24\lang1033\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033 {\rtlch \ltrch\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033\i0\b0 Since the term \'93pre-individual\'94 must include sensory perception, language, and productive forces, we could also say that the \'93social  individual\'94 is the individual who openly exhibits an ongoing ontogenesis, a unique development (with its own different lay
ers or constituent elements). 80}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s3\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\ql\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\langfe2052\hich\f1\fs24\lang1033\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033 {\rtlch \ltrch\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033\i0\b0 Why is life, as such, managed and controlled? The answer is absolutely clear: because it acts as the substratum of a mere faculty, labor-power, which has taken on the consistency of a commodity. It is not a question, here, of the productivity of actual lab
or, but of the exchangeability of the potential to work. 83}
\par \pard\plain \ltrpar\s3\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\sa120\ql\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af1\langfe2052\hich\f1\fs24\lang2057\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057{\rtlch \ltrch\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0\ltrch\hich\lang1033\loch\lang1033 The advanced technologies do not provoke a \'93displacement,\'94 such as to dissipate a pre-existing \'93familiarity\'94; rather, they reduce to a {\rtlch\ltrch\dbch\hich\i\loch\i professional profile } the experience of the most radical kind of displacement itself. 86}
\par }