{\rtf1\ansi\deff1\adeflang1025
{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fprq2\fcharset0 Times New Roman{\*\falt Thorndale};}{\f1\froman\fprq0\fcharset0 Arial{\*\falt };}{\f2\froman\fprq0\fcharset0 Arial{\*\falt };}{\f3\fswiss\fprq2\fcharset0 Trebuchet MS;}{\f4\fswiss\fprq0\fcharset0 Arial;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;}
{\stylesheet{\s1\cf1{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang1033\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe1033\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033\snext1 Default;}
}
{\info{\comment StarWriter}{\vern6380}}\deftab720
{\*\pgdsctbl
{\pgdsc0\pgdscuse195\pgwsxn11905\pghsxn16837\marglsxn1134\margrsxn1134\margtsxn1134\margbsxn1134\pgdscnxt0 Default;}}
\paperh16837\paperw11905\margl1134\margr1134\margt1134\margb1134\sectd\sbknone\pgwsxn11905\pghsxn16837\marglsxn1134\margrsxn1134\margtsxn1134\margbsxn1134\ftnbj\ftnstart1\ftnrstcont\ftnnar\aenddoc\aftnrstcont\aftnstart1\aftnnrlc
\pard\plain \s1\cf1{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang1033\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe1033\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033\rtlch\af4\afs20\ltrch\dbch\af4\afs20\loch\f3\i {\ltrch\loch\f3 Whitehead's Metaphysics. An Introductory Exposition. {\i0  Ivor Leclerc, George Allen & Unwin, London, 1958}}
\par \pard\plain \s1\cf1{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af1\afs24\lang1033\ltrch\dbch\af1\afs24\langfe1033\loch\f1\fs24\lang1033\rtlch\af4\afs20\ltrch\dbch\af4\afs20\loch\f3 
\par {\ltrch\loch\f3 The  new creature is 'concrete' (i.e. actual) by virtue of its 'concrescence or its process or 'growing together.' In other words, its 'concreteness' or factuality' is constituted by its act of' achieving a novel unity. The rhythm of the universal creative
 process therefore distinguishes Itself Into two phases, which are the two species of process. 89}
\par 
\par {\ltrch\loch\f3 Alternatively expressed, for there to be an individual actuality, its activity must take a definite form. 92}
\par 
\par {\ltrch\loch\f3 In such a philosophy the actualities constituting the process of the world are conceived as exemplifying the ingression (or 'participation') of other things [entities] which constitute the potentialities of definiteness for any actual existence. The things
 which are temporal arise by their participation in the things which are eternal. R 54 [63], 94}
\par 
\par {\ltrch\loch\f3 The notion of 'givenness' carries with it a reference beyond the mere data In question. It refers to a 'decision' whereby what is 'given' is separated off from what for that occasion is 'not given'. This element separated of from what for that occasion is 
'not given'. This element of  'givenness' in things implies some activity procuring limitation. i PR 58 [68].}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f3 98}
\par 
\par {\ltrch\loch\f3 In other words, the 'decision' as to which actualities the eternal forms will have ingression into does not, and cannot, lie with the forms themselves. It cannot, for 'decision' is an {\i act}, and by the ontological principle, only {\i actual} entities are capable 
of acting. 99}
\par 
\par {\ltrch\loch\f3 The antecedent actualities are 'data' for an actual entity in the process of becoming. Being 'data means that they are 'given , and we have seen that the  correlative of 'givenness' is 'potentiality'. Thus antecedent actualities, as well as eternal objects
, stand to present concrescing actualities as 'potentials' to 'actuals'. Only concrescing i.e. 'acting' entities are {\i actual }{\i0 in the }full, proper sense. 101}
\par 
\par {\ltrch\loch\f3 That is, the antecedent actual entities are 'given' through the mediation of eternal objects, and the eternal objects are 'given' as implicated in the antecedent actual entities. The 'data' for any actual entity arc therefore complex. 101}
\par 
\par {\ltrch\loch\f3 that the potentiality for being an element in a real concrescence of many entities into one actuality, is the one general metaphysical character attaching to all entities, actual and non-actual; and that every item in its universe is involved in each concr
escence. PR 3O~ 102}
\par 
\par }