{\rtf1\ansi\deff1\adeflang1025
{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fprq2\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fnil\fprq0\fcharset0 Trebuchet MS;}{\f2\fnil\fprq0\fcharset0 Trebuchet MS;}{\f3\fnil\fprq2\fcharset0 Arial Unicode MS;}{\f4\fnil\fprq2\fcharset0 Tahoma;}{\f5\fnil\fprq0\fcharset0 Tahoma;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;}
{\stylesheet{\s1\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af4\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af3\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\snext1 Default;}
{\s2\sa120\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af4\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af3\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\sbasedon1\snext2 Text body;}
{\s3\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af5\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af3\afs24\langfe255\loch\fs24\lang2057\sbasedon2\snext3 List;}
{\s4\sb120\sa120\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af5\afs20\lang255\ai\ltrch\dbch\af3\afs20\langfe255\ai\loch\fs20\lang2057\i\sbasedon1\snext4 Caption;}
{\s5\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af5\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af3\afs24\langfe255\loch\fs24\lang2057\sbasedon1\snext5 Index;}
}
{\info{\creatim\yr2004\mo3\dy10\hr12\min29}{\revtim\yr2004\mo3\dy10\hr12\min30}{\printim\yr1601\mo1\dy1\hr0\min0}{\comment StarWriter}{\vern6450}}\deftab709
{\*\pgdsctbl
{\pgdsc0\pgdscuse195\pgwsxn11905\pghsxn16837\marglsxn1134\margrsxn1134\margtsxn1134\margbsxn1134\pgdscnxt0 Default;}}
\paperh16837\paperw11905\margl1134\margr1134\margt1134\margb1134\sectd\sbknone\pgwsxn11905\pghsxn16837\marglsxn1134\margrsxn1134\margtsxn1134\margbsxn1134\ftnbj\ftnstart1\ftnrstcont\ftnnar\aenddoc\aftnrstcont\aftnstart1\aftnnrlc
\pard\plain \ltrpar\s1\cf0{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\af4\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af3\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057 {\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 Woolgar, Steve \ldblquote Configuring the User: the case of usability trials\rdblquote , The Sociology of Monsters. Essays on Power, Technology and Domination, ed. Law, John (Routledge, London & New York, 1991)[]3.}
\par 
\par {\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 Do characteristics reside in, or are they attributed to entities? ... As we have suggested, answers to this kind of question vary enormously, both over time and cross-culturally; according to which kind of entity one is discussing; and according to which n
otions of boundedness inform the discussion. Importantly, views about the capability and boundedness of any one entity are bound up with views about other entities and of the relationship between them. For convenience, we can refer to any existing complex 
of relationships between entities as the moral order of representation. (Woolgar, 1991, 65)}
\par 
\par {\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 In other words, representations (descriptions, determinations of many kinds) of \lquote what the machine is\rquote  take their sense from descriptions of the \lquote machine\rquote s context\rquote ; at the same time, an understanding of \lquote the context\rquote  derives from a sense of the machine in 
its context. The sense of context and machine mutually elaborate each other. For that aspect of context called the user, the reflexive tie is especially marked. The capacity and boundedness of the machine take their sense and meaning from the capacity and 
boundedness of the user. (Woolgar, 1991, 68)}
\par 
\par {\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 The user is encouraged to find in her dealings with the machine an adequate puzzle for the solution which the machine offers. (Woolgar, 1991, 68)}
\par 
\par {\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 [C]onfiguring the user involves the determination of likely future requirements and actions of users. Since the company tends to have better access to the future than users, it is the company\rquote s view which defines users\rquote  future requirements.  (Woolgar, 1991
, 75)}
\par 
\par {\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 Here we see that, in the event of uncertainty, users are redirected back to sources - either \lquote user documentation\rquote  or the company technical support hotline - which can re-establish the correct pattern of user action, in line with the approved configuration 
of the user\rquote s relationship with the compnay.  (Woolgar, 1991, 80)}
\par 
\par {\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 I have argued that user configuration involves boundary work. The user\rquote s character and capacity, her possible future actions are structured and defined in relation to the machine.  (Woolgar, 1991, 89)}
\par 
\par {\loch\f1\fs24\lang2057\i0\b0 We are encouraged carefully to document all the grunts and mutterings of the humans, (many of) their movements and gestures (as if this is going to help), while the actions, motives and intentions of the inanimate objects are treated as irrelevant. ... We 
clearly need to develop a means of describing the interaction from the machine\rquote s point of view.  (Woolgar, 1991, 90)}
\par 
\par }