{\rtf1\ansi\deff1\adeflang1025
{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fprq2\fcharset0 Times New Roman{\*\falt Thorndale};}{\f1\froman\fprq2\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fnil\fprq0\fcharset0 Trebuchet MS;}{\f3\fswiss\fprq2\fcharset0 Trebuchet MS;}{\f4\froman\fprq2\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}{\f5\fnil\fprq2\fcharset0 HG Mincho Light J;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;}
{\stylesheet{\s1{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af5\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang255\snext1 Default;}
{\s2\sb340\sa232\sl360\slmult1{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af5\afs24\langfe255\loch\f3\fs22\lang255\sbasedon1\snext2 Text body;}
{\s3\sb340\sa232\sl360\slmult1{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af5\afs24\langfe255\loch\f2\fs22\lang255\sbasedon2\snext3 List;}
{\s4\sb120\sa120{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\afs20\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af5\afs20\langfe255\loch\f2\fs20\lang255\i\sbasedon1\snext4 Caption;}
{\s5{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af5\afs24\langfe255\loch\f2\fs24\lang255\sbasedon1\snext5 Index;}
{\s6\li283\ri0\fi0\sb340\sa232\sl360\slmult1{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af5\afs24\langfe255\loch\f3\fs22\lang255\sbasedon2\snext6 Text body indent;}
}
{\info{\comment StarWriter}{\vern6380}}\deftab1250
{\*\pgdsctbl
{\pgdsc0\pgdscuse195\pgwsxn11905\pghsxn16837\marglsxn1134\margrsxn1134\margtsxn1134\margbsxn1134\pgdscnxt0 Default;}}
\paperh16837\paperw11905\margl1134\margr1134\margt1134\margb1134\sectd\sbknone\pgwsxn11905\pghsxn16837\marglsxn1134\margrsxn1134\margtsxn1134\margbsxn1134\ftnbj\ftnstart1\ftnrstcont\ftnnar\aenddoc\aftnrstcont\aftnstart1\aftnnrlc
\pard\plain \s1{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af5\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang255{\ltrch\loch\f1{\i0 Kent Beck, }{\i Extreme Programming Explained. Embrace Change }Addison-Wesley, 2000}
\par 
\par \pard\plain \s6\li283\ri0\fi0\sb340\sa232\sl360\slmult1{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af5\afs24\langfe255\loch\f3\fs22\lang255 {\ltrch\loch\f3 Driving is about constantly paying attention, making a little correction this way, a little correction that way.}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f3 [Driving] is the paradigm for XP. There is no such thing as straight and level. (Beck, 28)}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f3 [S]oftware development is like steering, not like getting the car pointed straight down the road. Our job as programmers is to give the customer a steering wheel and give them feedback about exactly where we are on the road. (28)}
\par \pard\plain \s1{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af5\afs24\langfe255\loch\f1\fs24\lang255 
\par {\ltrch\loch\f1 XP uses the metaphor of programming for its activities-that is, everything you do looks in some way like programming.: Programming in XP is like programming with a few small things added, like automated testing. However, like all the rest of XP, XP develop
ment is deceptively simple. All the pieces are simple enough to explain, but executing them is hard. Fear intrudes. Under pressure, old habits return. (97)}
\par 
\par \pard\plain \s2\sb340\sa232\sl360\slmult1{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af5\afs24\langfe255\loch\f3\fs22\lang255 {\ltrch\loch\f3 The ideal XP project goes through a short initial development phase, followed by years of simultaneous production support and refinement. (Beck, 2000, 131)}
\par 
\par \pard\plain \s6\li283\ri0\fi0\sb340\sa232\sl360\slmult1{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\rtlch\afs24\lang255\ltrch\dbch\af5\afs24\langfe255\loch\f3\fs22\lang255{\ltrch\loch\f3{\b Customer }A role on the team for choosing what stories the system has to satisfy, what stories are neede first and what can be deferred and for defining tests to verify the correction functioning of the stories.(Beck, 2000, 177)}
\par {\ltrch\loch\f3 You can also use  XP for shrinkwrap software. The role of Business in the Planning Game is played by the marketing department. They are the ones who identify what stories the market wants, how much of each story is needs, and what order the stories should 
be implemented (Beck, 2000, 164)}
\par }